President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, has congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidates on their victory in the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States. Lawan has however urged the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC  to learn from the challenges experienced in the two states with a view to constantly improving its institutional performance and the electoral process. He also called on the relevant agencies to ensure thorough prosecution of the electoral offenders in the two states to serve as deterrence to others. In a statement on Monday by his Special Adviser, Media, Ola Awoniyi Lawan who particularly rejoiced with the Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello on his reelection and David Lyon for making history as the first governor of Bayelsa elected on a platform different from the outgoing ruling party in the state. The President of the Senate praised President Muhammadu Buhari for ensuring a level playing field that enabled the people to assert their sovereignty and choose their leaders. Lawan said, “The impressive turnout of voters in the two states is a ringing endorsement of democracy by Nigerians as their preferred system, notwithstanding its current challenges.” The President of the Senate who also thanked the security personnel for their sacrifices for peace and order in the face of great difficulties, however, enjoined the winners to be magnanimous in victory by accommodating all sections of the state in their governments and development agenda. Vanguard Nigeria News The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has shifted the governorship election in Kogi and Bayelsa states to November 16. May 16, 2019 In "News" THE All  Progressives Congress, APC, is on its way to winning the Bayelsa and Kogi governorship polls, held on Saturday. At press time, the party was awaiting final declaration as winner from the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. November 18, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—ON a day  the Senate made a U-turn on its vow to ensure thorough screening of all ministerial nominees, including former senators, there was an uproar in the upper chamber over the exclusion of an indigene of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja in President Muhammadu Buhari’s 43-man list. July 25, 2019 In "News"