Turkey has captured a wife of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, President Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday, more than a week after the former Islamic State leader killed himself during a raid by U.S. special forces. “The United States said Baghdadi killed himself in a tunnel. They started a communication campaign about this,” Erdogan said. “But, I am announcing it here for the first time: We captured his wife and didn’t make a fuss like them. Similarly, we also captured his sister and brother in law in Syria,” he said in a speech at Ankara University. He gave no details. A senior Turkish official said earlier this week that Turkey had captured Baghdadi’s sister, her husband and daughter-in-law, and hoped to gain intelligence from them about Islamic State, although Ankara has not said what knowledge they may have had about the group’s operations. Baghdadi rose from obscurity to lead the ultra-hardline group and declare himself caliph of all Muslims, holding sway over huge areas of Iraq and Syria from 2014-2017 before Islamic State’s control was wrested away by a U.S.-led coalition. Vanguard News Nigeria. Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL  or ISIS) leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi has been killed in a US military raid,  President  Donald Trump has confirmed. October 28, 2019 In "Foreign" ...as it warns America 'not to rejoice' in the death of its leadership ISIS has confirmed the death of its leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi after the self-appointed 'caliph' died during a U.S. special forces raid in Syria last weekend. In an audio statement today the terror group named Abu Ibrahim al-Hashimi… October 31, 2019 In "Foreign" For all the attention, invention and investment that the U.S. intelligence community devotes to spy satellites, communications intercepts, and new technologies such as artificial intelligence, the raid that killed ISIS Leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi were launched by the same old-fashioned tool that led to Osama bin Laden: human intelligence. TIME… October 28, 2019 In "Foreign"