Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has publicly dropped ‘Your Excellency’ title, saying “Only God, the Almighty, the Creator, the Protector is the Most Excellent. No man can share His eternal qualities.” This is just as the governor adopted the title ‘Mr’ instead. Sanwo-Olu stated that it is a wrong orientation for elected and appointed persons, who are paid from the taxes of the people to see themselves oppressors who can do no wrong and must be served, rather than serve the people. He said that “The office of the Governor has been celebrated as the paragon of excellence, a temple of perfection and a throne of purity. “This demi-god mystique spreads over the entire machinery of the executive arm of the government, symbolising an authoritarian disposition on the governed. “Whatever might have been the reason for this myth, let us be honest, the office is occupied by a mortal who has been called upon to serve the electorate with humility – and sincerity. The office of Governor is a public trust that calls for sacrifice, modesty and willingness to add value to the lives of the people.” Sanwo-Olu continued: “Fellow Lagosians, I have come to the conclusion that for us to change the narrative of governance, we have to strike down this seeming symbol of executive arrogance that commands popular obeisance and undermines the democratic role of citizens as the masters of those they have elected and appointed to serve. “It is a conviction that I believe will send the right signals to all politicians and civil servants that service to the people has brought us here. It is the duty we are obliged to do. It is the responsibility that we bear wherever we find ourselves; whenever we are called to serve. “Only God, the Almighty, the Creator, the Protector is the Most Excellent. No man can share His eternal qualities,” Sanwo said. The Lagos State governor added that “In the last five months that I have been privileged to exercise the mandate freely given to me by the great and hardworking people of Lagos State, it has come to my consciousness to review certain features of citizen-government relations which impede the genuine expression of the democratic spirit of our society and the meaningful exercise of the sovereignty of our people. “Thenceforth, I wish to be addressed simply as Mr Governor, a title that will constantly remind me that I have been chosen out of so many fellow compatriots to lead a collective salvage of our political economy. A salutation that sanitises the paraphernalia of office and reminds us of all of our imperfections and mortality. To give official effect to this announcement, I shall issue tomorrow an executive order that will formally ensure full compliance with this new policy. Vanguard A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Victor Akande, has urged the  state Governor-elect, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu..... April 22, 2019 In "News" It’s no longer news  that the junior officer of the incumbent Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode, who is the Managing Director, of Lagos State Development and Property Corporation, LSDPC, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu may take over the exalted office of the Governor in 2019 if he win the state election. He… October 6, 2018 In "Politics" Ahead of All Progressives Congress, APC, governorship primary in Lagos State, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo,  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and  the Governor’s Advisory Council, GAC, yesterday, endorsed  Mr  Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the party’s ticket for the 2019 elections. September 30, 2018 In "News"