The All Progressives Congress APC in Edo state has restated the suspension of its former state chairman, Anselm Ojezua, urging the public to disregard any statement credited to him as he does not and can no longer represent the party at any level. State Publicity Secretary of the party, Chris Azebamwan in a statement Thursday in Abuja said the suspension of Mr Ojezua has since been ratified by the National Working Committee NWC of the party. The statement reads; “Our attention has been drawn to a statement credited to Barr. Anselm Ojezua who for the records, has been suspended from our Party, in respect of the South-South Zonal caucus meeting of the All Progressives Congress that held in Abuja today. A meeting in any case, to which he was not invited. “For the avoidance of doubt, a vote of no confidence was passed on Barr. Anselm Ojezua by the State Working Committee of APC Edo State on 11th November 2019 and the resolution was ratified by the National Working Committee on 13th November 2019. “By that action, Barr. Anselm Ojezua is no longer the State Chairman of APC Edo State, and cannot purport to speak or act in that capacity. His statement should, therefore, be disregarded by our teeming members and the general public”, the statement added. Vanguard …warn troublemakers against breach of public peace The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has insisted that as leader of the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), he is not aware of the proposed rally by the party in the state. This is as the State Chairman of… December 13, 2019 In "News" The Chairman of Edo State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC), Barr. Anselm Ojezua, has urged residents of the state to vote for the party’s candidates in the forthcoming general election. February 5, 2019 In "News" THE Edo State government has rejected the decision of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to set up a fact-finding committee to look into the crisis troubling the party saying the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is a party in the matter… November 13, 2019 In "News"