The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said on Wednesday that Nigerian roads are not as bad as they are being portrayed. He insisted that reports on the poor state of roads in the country are mere hype. The minister stated this in a chat with State House correspondents at the end of the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Fashola said FEC approved the contract for the construction of Bida-Sachi-Nupeko road and the Nupeko-Patigi bridge across River Niger, linking Nupeko and Patigi in Niger and Kwara States at the sum of N58.488 billion. He was flanked by the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed and the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami. He said the approved project would link Niger and Kwara together and facilitate connectivity from southwest to the north-central and the rest of the northern part of Nigeria. He said the project was an old contract that was awarded in 2013 but was terminated for non-performance, revaluated and awarded. The minister said: “It didn’t have a bridge then so we have added the bridge now and approved for N58.488 billion and is expected to take 30 months to complete.” On the condition of Nigerian roads, he said the roads are not as bad as they are often portrayed. “I know that this is going to be your headline, but the roads are not that bad,” he added. He further explained that but for funding challenges, most road projects would have been long completed.  Vanguard   The Federal Executive Council(FEC) has approved the sum of N58.48 billion for the Bida-Saachi-Nupeko Road project and the Nupeko-Pategi Bridge project, which links Niger and Kwara states. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, disclosed this while briefing State House correspondents after the FEC meeting presided over by Vice… November 7, 2019 In "News" Nigerians have flooded the Vanguard Facebook page to drop their reactions and share locations of bad roads across the country to counter Fashola, the former Lagos State governor. November 8, 2019 In "News" Victor Ogunyinka “I know that this is going to be your headline, but the roads are not that bad,” those are the words of Minister of Works, Babatunde Fashola on the state of roads in Nigeria. The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said on Wednesday that Nigerian roads… November 7, 2019 In "News"