Tens of thousands of Algerian protesters marched on Friday to demand that a presidential election next month be canceled until the old ruling guard step aside and the army quit politics. The marches, held in cities and towns across the country, marked the 41st consecutive weekly protest of a movement that has already forced the ruling hierarchy to jettison a veteran president and jail top officials. The protest movement’s continued momentum now poses a major challenge to the military, which has pushed for the December 12 election as the only way to resolve the deadlock between the authorities and the nebulous, leaderless opposition movement. Protesters on Friday chanted “No to the election”, “Free the detainees” and “the army should leave politics” as they marched through central Algiers. One protester held up a placard reading: “They have the vote. We have the veto”. Since the election campaign officially began earlier this month, tensions have escalated, with more frequent demonstrations, more arrests, longer prison terms and scuffles between police and protesters in a provincial town on Wednesday. Algeria’s main labour union, which is pro-government, plans a rare march on Saturday in Algiers to demonstrate in favour of the election. The protests began in February as it became clear that veteran leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika planned to seek another presidential term in a vote originally scheduled for July. As hundreds of thousands marched across the country, the army pushed him to quit in April. Dozens of senior figures, including a former intelligence chief, Bouteflika’s brother, government ministers and allied business tycoons were detained. Several of them have been jailed for long terms on corruption charges and two former prime ministers, Ahmed Ouyahia and Abdelmalek Sellal, are to be prosecuted next week. However, the protesters have demanded a more thorough purge of the ruling elite, which has controlled Algeria since winning independence from France in 1962, and the authorities have also arrested dozens of opposition figures and demonstrators. Algeria, which relies heavily on oil and gas sales, has been hit hard by the crash in oil prices, halving its revenues from $60 billion to $30 billion. Vanguard News Nigeria. Riad Mostefai has marched through the capital of Algeria every Friday since February to demand a purge of the ruling hierarchy, an end to corruption and the army’s withdrawal from politics. Though some of his demands have been met, Mostefai plans to keep on marching each week along with tens… October 31, 2019 In "Foreign" Algeria's powerful army chief has ordered buses and cars bringing protesters into the capital to be stopped and seized, the latest in a series of measures aimed at quelling weekly demonstrations demanding a purge of the old ruling elite. "We have instructed the gendarmerie to ... stop buses and cars… September 20, 2019 In "Foreign" Protesters opposing the election that Algeria’s veteran ruling cadre has set for December took to the streets of the capital on Friday seeking the release of a detained opposition figure, as two recent premiers said they would run for president. Weekly demonstrations since February have demanded that the old guard… September 27, 2019 In "Foreign"