Arsene Wenger has refused to rule out a move to Bayern Munich amid reports the Frenchman could be set to take charge at the Bundesliga giants. The former Arsenal boss is rumoured to be the leading contender to succeed Niko Kovac at Allianz Arena after Ralf Rangnick ruled himself out of the running. The 70-year-old has been without a managerial job since leaving the Emirates Stadium in the summer of 2018 and has always insisted he wanted to return to full-time management if the right position came along. Speaking about reports linking him with a move to Bavaria, Wenger, who also confirmed he speaks fluent German, told beIN Sports: “I’d never refuse to talk to Bayern Munich, because I know the people who have led the club for 30 years and I was nearly going to Bayern a long, long time ago. That’s all I can say.” When pressed further on whether he would like to work at Bayern, Wenger added: “At the moment I haven’t talked to them at all, I don’t know if I will. “I just want to do what I like now. I have not decided yet if I will go back on the pitch or not. I’m quite happy what I am doing but I miss the pitch as well, so it’s a difficult decision for me at the moment. “I will make that decision in the coming days or in the coming week.” When asked about what impressed him most about Bayern Munich and German football in general, Wenger said: “What I admire, and you have to give that to the Germans, is they always try to take responsibility to play. “Bayern is always a team who take possession and are not scared to have the ball, take the game to the opponents and dominate the game. “Historically they have always done that. They have a history as a club who wants to play positive football.” Mauricio Pochettino, Jose Mourinho and Massimiliano Allegri have also been linked with the role over the past few days while Paris Saint-Germain boss Thomas Tuchel has publicly ruled himself out of the running. Source: Goal Vanguard News Arsene Wenger is under unprecedented pressure to end his storied 21-year tenure as Arsenal manager following their humiliating 10-2 aggregate defeat by Bayern Munich in the Champions League. March 8, 2017 In "News" Beleaguered Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has decided to stay at the club, according to British media reports on Monday. March 20, 2017 In "Sports" Arsene Wenger's long reign at Arsenal is unlikely ever to be repeated, said Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola on Friday. April 20, 2018 In "News"