A pair of John Lennon’s trademark round sunglasses are going up for auction along with a parking ticket given to Beatles drummer Ringo Starr — items kept for half a century by a former driver for the band. Alan Herring, who worked as a chauffeur for Starr and bandmate George Harrison in the late 60s, said Lennon had given him the glasses after leaving them on the back seat of his Mercedes. “When John got out of the car I noticed that he’d left these sunglasses on the back seat and one lens and one arm had become disconnected,” he said. “I asked John if he’d like me to get them fixed for him. He told me not to worry, that they were just for the look.” The vintage glasses and the parking ticket — issued on April 25, 1969 in London outside the band’s own label Apple Records — will be sold online by Sotheby’s with other Beatles memorabilia next month. Herring said the decision to sell the objects was an emotional one, but that “the memories I have of this very special time in my life working with the Beatles are far more important to me”. The brown, creased £2 parking ticket is expected to fetch £1,500 ($1,900, 1,700 euro), while the sunglasses — which Herring never did get mended — could sell for £8,000. Other items going under the hammer between December 6 to 13 include a cigarette lighter kept in Herring’s car, shirts worn by the Fab Four and Harrison’s guitar with a predicted price of £60,000. VANGUARD First daughter of late multi-billionaire diplomat and businessman, Antonio Oladeinde Fernandez, has shed more light on the personality of the late billionaire diplomat, dismissing allega-tions of mystery being built around him. September 11, 2015 In "News" Abby, my Yoga student and events planner per excellence and an art enthusiast of the highest order asked me just a fortnight back.” Mike, have you ever heard of a musician by the name of Rodiriguez?” I answered in the negative. She thensaid that she had a docummentary on the… March 7, 2013 In "The Arts" EDWIN sat relaxed in his London flat. He was on a business trip and he’d arranged for his girlfriend to move in for the five days he would be around. With his thick-rimmed glasses and balding head, he wasn’t exactly God’s gift to women. But he has a fit body… July 22, 2017 In "Relationships"