Huawei Cloud has released Kunpeng ECS (Elastic Cloud Server) cloud services and Partner Program 2.0 at AfricaCom, the continent’s largest annual telecom event. The Kunpeng-powered cloud services will be made available to African customers by the end of December and will offer 15% faster multi-core computing power and a 30% higher performance/price ratio than the industry average. These cloud services offer an unprecedented capability to meet the ever-shifting requirements of a diverse range of public and private institutions. Speaking at the Huawei Cloud, AI Forum, Rui Houwei, President of HUAWEI CLOUD Africa, noted the significance of recent technological breakthroughs. “The computing industry has gone through the mainframe computer, minicomputer, and x86 server stages and will move to the multi-architecture computing stage,” he said. “The computing power previously available only in the x86 architecture, is now available in different architectures, allowing for the use of appropriate computing power for each specific application. “ This January, Huawei launched Kunpeng 920, the industry’s highest-performing 7nm server processor in the Kunpeng architecture. The HUAWEI CLOUD ECS is powered by the Kunpeng servers and supports multi-architecture computing. ” Rui also expressed optimism at Kunpeng’s capabilities for the local market, “Huawei is able to innovate across the entire stack ranging from chips and servers to cloud platforms. In-depth collaboration between chips, hardware, and software enable Kunpeng cloud services to deliver unparalleled performance. We are deeply committed to providing diversified cloud services and solutions, to help public institutions and private companies take intelligence and mobility to even greater heights. ” At the forum, Huawei also outlined its Partner Program 2.0 initiative, which offers crucial support for partners, with regard to online and onsite training, market expansion, marketing activities, and technical understanding. In Africa alone, HUAWEI CLOUD has established partnerships with over 65 partners spanning diverse industries, including telecom, finance, manufacturing, education, retail, and logistics, as well as the public sector. “Such wide-ranging collaboration is likely to result in unique, and broadly-shared benefits across the ecosystem,” said Rui. According to an IDC report, South Africa’s spending in public cloud services will reach R11.5 billion in 2022, a three-fold increase from 2017. This expansion is projected to create 112,000 jobs. By 2020, cloud services will account for 67% of enterprises’ total spending in IT infrastructure and software. More than 85% of enterprises are expected to use the hybrid-cloud or multi-cloud architecture. Huawei has been operating in Africa for over 20 years and has developed an in-depth understanding of the requirements, opportunities, and challenges faced by African customers. Its local teams are fully equipped to provide premium services for customers spanning 54different African countries. HUAWEI CLOUD has leveraged its 30 years of accumulated technological development and expertise in the ICT field, to deliver high-quality full-stack cloud services at the best possible value. HUAWEI CLOUD services were officially launched in South Africa this February, making it the first cloud service provider to utilize local data centres in that country. Over the past eight months, HUAWEI CLOUD has experienced rapid growth in the African market, notably in South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, and Zambia. VANGUARD Information and Communications Technology stakeholders in Africa, recently , in Lagos, admitted that cloud computing would be one of the mega trends in Information Technology field in 2016. The forecast was made at the just concluded Huawei Cloud Congress West Africa, HCC Nigeria 2016. May 18, 2016 In "News" Leading global Information and Communications Technology (ICT) solutions provider, Huawei at the just concluded Huawei Network Congress (HNC) West Africa 2015 held in Lagos with the theme, "From Agility to Imagination” focusing on “introducing SDN technology” and “upgrading customer experience” has launched Agile network solutions in Nigeeia. September 7, 2015 In "Technology" Cloud computing is currently making information and communications technology headlines, and vendors are aggressively promoting the many benefits it can provide organizations. These benefits appear so compelling that on the surface it seems all ICTs can and should be moved “into the cloud”. December 12, 2012 In "Technology"