The Senate on Tuesday confirmed 15 out of the 16 nominees forwarded by President Muhammadu Buhari to the National Assembly for confirmation as board members of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). According to a statement by Special Assistant (Press) to Senate President, Mr Ezrel Tabiowoh, the nominees confirmed by the Senate are Dr Pius Odubu (Edo), Chairman; Bernard Okumagba (Delta), Managing Director; Engr Otobong Ndem (Akwa-Ibom), Executive Director (Projects); Maxwell Oko (Bayelsa), Executive Director, Finance and Admin; Jones Erue (Delta), and Chief Victor Ekhator (Edo). Others are Nwogu N. Nwogu (Abia), Theodore Allison (Bayelsa), Victor Antai (Akwa-Ibom), Maurice Effiwatt (Cross River), Olugbenga Edema (Ondo), Hon. Uchegbu Chidiebere Kyrian (Imo), Aisha Murtala Muhammed (Kano), Shuaibu Ardo Zubairu (Adamawa), and Ambassador Abdullahi Bage (Nasarawa). The upper chamber, however, rejected the nomination of Dr Joy Yimebe Nunieh, as nominee representing Rivers State on the board. Chairman, Senate Committee on NDDC, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, in his presentation of the committee’s report, explained that the committee sent an invitation to the nominee twice to attend the screening exercise last week. The lawmaker, however, told his colleagues on the floor that the nominee on both occasions refused to appear before the panel for screening. Vanguard PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has written to the Senate, requesting for the screening and subsequent confirmation of former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Dr. Pius Odubu as Chairman, Board of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. October 29, 2019 In "News" Henry Umoru - Abuja The Senate on Tuesday confirmed President Muhammadu Buhari’s nominees for the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The former Deputy Governor of Edo State, Dr. Pius Odubu, was confirmed by the Senate as Chairman of the NDDC Board. Odubu, who was the first to… November 5, 2019 In "News" By Henry Umoru Strong Indications have emerged that fresh crisis looms at the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC as the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan on Tuesday gave a matching order to the just confirmed board to immediately take over the affairs of the Commission. Speaking on Tuesday… November 5, 2019 In "News"