Sixteen of the candidates that participated in the Nov. 16 governorship election in Kogi have accepted the results of the election as announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Addressing a news conference in Lokoja on Monday shortly after the announcement of the election results, the coalition of 16 candidates led by Dr Sani Teidi, the candidate of the Young Democratic Party urged losers to work with the winner for accelerated development of the state. ” We congratulate His Excellency, Alhaji Yahaya Bello for the overwhelming victory at the poll and all those who participated in the election. ” We appeal to the winner to be magnanimous in victory and prepare to mend fences for all-inclusive governance. “We are also appealing to all Kogi stakeholders to accept the winner for participatory governance,” Teidi said. The candidates condemned the call for cancellation of the election by civil society groups, saying that they did not consider the enormity of waste and loss of lives that may occur in the course of re-running the election. ” All aggrieved political parties should play the game by the rule. Kogi is our state, and the only panacea for development is peace,” he said. Some of the parties include: Green Party of Nigeria, Accord Party, Young Democratic Party, Justice Must Prevail Party, Peoples Party of Nigeria, Africa Action Alliance and National Conscience Party among others. Vanguard News Nigeria. Mr Ade Omole, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) has assured Kogi people that Gov. Yahaya Bello, will do better in his second term in office. Omole, who is the leader of the UK chapter of the APC, said on Monday, in Abuja, while reacting to Bello`s re-election… November 18, 2019 In "News" DEPUTY President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo- Agege, All Progressives Congress, APC, Delta Central has congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidates on their victory in the governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa States. November 18, 2019 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission has declared the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Alh. Yahaya Bello as the winner of the Kogi governorship poll. December 6, 2015 In "News"