British Prime Minister Boris Johnson promised on Sunday “to get Brexit done”, pledging in his Conservative Party’s manifesto to bring his deal to leave the European Union back to parliament before Christmas and ruling out any more delay. With less than three weeks before Britain heads to the polls on Dec. 12, the governing Conservatives and opposition Labour Party are trying to tempt voters with different visions of the country’s future, but both pledging to spend more. Johnson’s manifesto aims at drawing a distinction with Labour, which has promised to raise taxes on the rich and businesses to fund a big expansion of the state, by promising not to increase taxes if the Conservatives win the election. But it offered little detail on other policy areas, with aides wanting the prime minister to play it safe after plans on social care in 2017 saw a poll lead enjoyed by his predecessor Theresa May all but disappear. Johnson is the runaway favorite to win the election, according to the polls. “Get Brexit done and we shall see a pent up tidal wave of investment into this country,” Johnson said, launching his manifesto at a conference center in Telford in central England. “Get Brexit done and we can focus our hearts and our minds on the priorities of the British people.” Arriving at the center, Johnson was welcomed by supporters chanting “Boris” but a little further away, protesters shouted: “Liar, liar, pants on fire”. Contrasting with Labour’s unabashed tax-and-spend approach, Johnson’s manifesto – titled “Get Brexit Done, Unleash Britain’s Potential” – pledged to freeze income tax, value-added sales tax, and social security payments. Instead, he promised 23.5 billion pounds ($30.2 billion) worth of “sensible” tax cuts and higher spending, including on Britain’s much-loved National Health Service by adding 50,000 nurses. Source: Reuters Vanguard News British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is laying an election “elephant trap” for the opposition Labour Party that it should avoid, former Labour Prime Minister, Tony Blair, warned on Monday. September 2, 2019 In "News" Britain was heading towards its first December election in almost a century after Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s bet on breaking the Brexit deadlock with an early ballot gained support from opposition parties on Tuesday. As the European Union finalises a third delay to the divorce that was originally supposed to… October 29, 2019 In "Foreign" British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative government, on Wednesday, promised to set aside an extra 2 billion pounds (2.4 billion dollars) for Brexit delivery. September 4, 2019 In "News"