Dinamo Zagreb and Shakhtar Donetsk face off in a crunch Champions League fixture as both sides compete to qualify for the knockout stages alongside likely group winners Manchester City. Zagreb won their last game 1-0, while Shakhtar romped to a 3-0 victory as the respective league leaders continued their domestic dominance. Dinamo Zagreb are four points clear at the summit of the Croatian top flight with a game in hand on the team below as they continue to assert themselves in their home nation. They are the league’s joint-top goalscorers with 23 strikes from 13 games and boast the division’s best defence as well, conceding a miserly six goals in that time – less than a goal every other game. However, they have more of a fight on their hands in Europe as Shakhtar competes with them for the second qualification spot in their Champions League group, while the loser will likely finish third and drop into the Europa League. The pair drew 2-2 in their last Champions League meeting in Ukraine, but both will be eager to win outright at the second time of asking and put themselves in the best possible position to qualify. Shakhtar are performing even better in the Ukrainian Premier League, boasting a 10-point gap at the top of the table after 13 games. They are the division’s outright top scorers, having netted a whopping 39 goals so far – an average of three goals per game – while also allowing just six at the other end. However, they were unable to make the most of home advantage in their earlier clash with Zagreb and will hope to win in Croatia this time around. Should the pair draw again, their subsequent results against Manchester City and Atalanta could decide their fate. Vanguard News The UEFA Champions League is back for matchday 3. Europe's premier club competition resumes after a 19-day break, with early kickoffs in Ukraine and Spain. It promises to be an exciting night of football, as Europe's best battle each other for pride and points.   Match 1, 17:55: Shakhtar Donetsk… October 22, 2019 In "Sports" Atalanta BC face an uphill battle to qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League after losing each of their first three group stage games in the competition. The Serie A outfit next host reigning Premier League champions Manchester City, who have lost just twice all season. Atalanta qualified… November 6, 2019 In "Sports" Manchester United were given a kind draw in the Champions League play-offs as they were paired with Belgians Club Brugge on Friday. August 7, 2015 In "Sports"