A former Governorship candidate, of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, has been expelled by the party. The party through the states Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, disclosed this, noting that their decision was informed by Ize-Iyamu’s silence on issues questioning the integrity of the party. Clarifying further, the party said Ize-Iyamu has been asked in many occasions to confirm or refute his rumoured defection to the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, but he has since remained mum. Nehikhare, according to Nation said that the expulsion would remain until Ize-Iyamu acknowledges, accepts and addresses the issue of his decamping to APC. The statement reads thus: “In the last few days, the Edo PDP has been inundated with calls and enquiries regarding the stories trending both in print and social media as it concerns one of our leaders, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. “The party leadership has patiently waited to hear or read his reaction to confirm or deny the stories, but to no avail. “We boast of being a party of men and women of integrity and high moral standing. It is a brand we have earned and wish to maintain. “As a result of the “uneasy quiet” from our dear pastor and the impression our silence will send to our teeming supporters and followers, Edo PDP is left with no option but to announce the EXCLUSION of Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu from all PDP related activities with immediate effect, until he Acknowledges, Accepts and Addresses the issue of his decamping to APC. “This decision has been taken without prejudice!” Vanguard Charles Idahosa is one of the founding members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and currently the Political Adviser to Governor Adams Oshiomhole. In this interview, he criticises a former Foreign Affairs Minister, Chief Tom Ikimi, over what he describes as derogatory comments he used against Oshiomhole. He responds to… July 10, 2016 In "News" A CHIEFTAIN of the APC in Edo state, Chief Charles Idahosa, has challenged the PDP Governorship Candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu to mention one project the PDP had executed in the state that will warrant the people voting for the party. September 6, 2016 In "Politics" The Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM) weekend adopted the PDP candidate, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, as its candidate for the election. July 4, 2016 In "News"