  4point Real Estate Investment Ltd, an established property development company that is leading the move for the development of residential properties and creation of safe haven for individuals and families across Lagos has commenced construction at its premium estate Rose Gardens Bungalow in Asese, located only a few minutes drive from the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Mrs Omolola Philips, Chief Operations Officer of 4point while sharing insight on the development stated that Rose Gardens project was positioned to attract investors that will bring development to the Asese community as the residential community is strategically located about 30 minutes drive to central Ikeja, thereby significantly reducing daily commute for the estate’s residents working in the city’s capital. She also stated that the company is taking a step further in its drive to intelligently defeat the current housing crises in the economy by introducing 100 housing units of Rose Gardens Bungalow. The bungalows are designed as a choice of affordable property that will feature a spacious modern living room with all rooms ensuite, kitchen, pantry, adequate parking spaces for up to three cars and many more interesting features. Rose Gardens Bungalow is in close proximity to Christ Embassy Camp and the new RCCG auditorium. The estate is about 7 mins drive from Punch place and is strategically situated to allow access to 3 major towns; Sagamu, Asese and Ikorodu. Each subscriber of Rose Gardens Bungalow will be given a Deed of Assignment. The Chief Executive Officer, Mr Wale Olayanju, while speaking on the development said that the company offers an innovative real-estate based investment solutions that intelligently and ethically leverage the current crises in the economy, to empower investors and enable high actualized returns in a short time with low-risk exposure, he also communicated that the Estate will be a reference point for future residential developments in the property market. In his statement, he stated that investors should expect a complete exterior, quality windows, pipework, roofing, conduit electricals and doors all fixed, he also communicated Rose Gardens as being open to individuals, cooperative societies, government institutions and private companies looking for quality developments and attractive returns on their investment through rental income and the proposed rail construction. A 3 bedroom bungalow is currently available for Ten million and five hundred thousand naira only. The company has created flexible payment plans for investors, allowing them to spread payment for up to 12 months. The investment is a convenient buy & reside plan which gives every investor instant allocation along with all necessary documents required to allow immediate access to their property.  4point Real Estate Investment Ltd, a Lagos-based property development company, is championing the drive for real estate investment opportunities targeted at millennial investors with the development of affordable housing schemes in suburban Lagos communities. September 17, 2019 In "News" THE Managing Director, Inclusive Concrete & Engineering Ltd, a Lagos-based real estate development company, and promoters of Excellence Estate in Arepo, Ogun state, Misbau Opeyemi Aminu, an engineer, has noted that delivering high quality homes that are complimented with lush green areas that replicate the ambience of Ikoyi, Lagos is… June 14, 2016 In "News" Richlife Properties Ltd, a subsidiary of Richlife Commercial & Logistics Ltd, which is into real estate development with residential estate locations across Lagos and Ogun states, has revealed that real estate investment is the most profitable investment with a returns on investment ROI. April 2, 2019 In "Homes & Property"