Interactive Business and Education Solution, WOWBii Interactive, has said it will showcase EdTech solutions capable of transforming Nigerian education sector at Computer Village Expo 2019. Computer Village Expo is an annual event that connects over 10,000 technology SMEs from the technology market, Ikeja Computer Village, and technology buyers from Nigeria, Africa and beyond. This year’s event which holds December in Lagos, has the theme; “A New Partnership Agenda for Growth.” Executive Director, Computer Village Expo 2019, Mr Foluso Busari, disclosed that WOWBii Interactive will showcase solutions across smart lifestyles, mobile money and financial inclusion. Others are  gaming, mobile apps, mobile lifestyles, e-Commerce, among others. Busari said since 2015, WOWBii has been transforming the way Africa works and learns by redefining meeting room and classroom technologies. He said: “WOWBii’s interactive and immersive solutions are embedded with integrated computing, cloud-based infrastructure, wireless connectivity and cross-platform compatibility, that allow  users instant access to information, content and applications. “As a proudly-African brand focused on providing simple yet durable products, WOWBii aims to be the preferred interactive solutions provider on the continent. We are pleased to partner WOWBii to showcase EdTech solutions that can transform classrooms and enhance the learning experience across the continent. Onyeje, was also named one of the speakers and thought leaders at the summit’s panel session which is on: “Unlocking Possibilities”. According to the organiser, the event is a strategic partnership between the Ikeja Computer Village Market Management Board and Technology Times Media Limited. Vanguard WOWBii Interactive, the first manufacturer of interactive touchscreen and foremost proponent of interactive learning in Africa, has certified The River Bank School, Victoria Island, Lagos as its first BUDDZone in Nigeria. December 28, 2017 In "Education" By Ebele Orakpo WOWBii Interactive, the first manufacturer of interactive touchscreen and foremost proponent of interactive learning in Africa, has certified The River Bank School, Victoria Island, Lagos as its first BUDDZone in Nigeria. Presenting the certificate to the head of RiverBank School, Mrs Regina Jemide, CEO of  WOWBii Interactive,… December 21, 2017 In "Education" Nigeria’s technology market hub, Ikeja Computer Village, is organising a five-day exhibition to showcase cutting-edge technology innovation September 18, 2019 In "Technology"