At the 6th annual Hollywood Weekly Magazine Film Festival, the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the last presidential election, Atiku Abubakar was acknowledged as the “Peoples’ President” in front of an illustrious academy of movie makers in Hollywood, California, United States of America. Busted: Jonathan was the reason Chibok girls were not rescued in 2014 – Former British PM, Cameron(Opens in a new browser tab) #FreeLeahSharibu activist, Reno Omokri, was honoured with the Humanitarian Cause of the Year Award at the ceremony, and when called to receive his award, he dedicated it to the duo of Atiku Abubakar and former President Goodluck Jonathan. “In Nigeria, where I am from, we are all Leah Sharibus, because our rights, our freedoms and our economy have been abducted by a brutal backward, Stone Age dictator, named General Buhari, who is using every trick in the book to prevent the person that Nigerians genuinely elected as their President, the People’s President, Atiku Abubakar, from claiming his mandate. If everybody will keep quiet, I will not keep quiet. And that is why I dedicate this award to Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, the last democrat to govern Nigeria, and to Atiku Abubakar, the People’s President. Atiku Abubakar is represented today, by his son, Abba Atiku, and I invite him to say a word or two”, Reno said. Presidential Election: Buhari speaks on Supreme Court verdict, thanks Nigerians again(Opens in a new browser tab) On his part, Abba Atiku, spoke and said “I know that the Nigerian people elected my father. However, as true Muslims, we have left the situation in Nigeria to the Almighty Allah. But I salute the courage and bravery of Leah Sharibu. And on behalf of my father, I hereby award Leah Sharibu a scholarship to the American University of Nigeria, Yola, whenever, she is freed”. Vanguard Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Atiku Abubakar has said that joblessness is a disease his government must cure if elected in 2019. October 31, 2018 In "News" Number one bestselling author and former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omokri has said that the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar is ready to engage President Muhammadu Buhari in a debate anywhere the president wishes including in Daura, Sudan or Aso Rock. January 5, 2019 In "News" Former aide to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Pastor Reno Omkri, Sunday challenged governor Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai of Kaduna state and former governor of Rivers state, Mr Rotimi Amaechi to travel to America, noting that the duo threw same challenge to the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the… August 11, 2019 In "News"