Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka has expressed worries over what he termed as “distortion and media misconception” of a British Broadcasting Corporation, BBC, feature programme in which his 2014 experience with cancer was featured. Soyinka, in a statement, Wednesday, said he had not seen the final presentation of the BBC feature programme on Health Awareness in which his 2014 experience with cancer was featured, but that he had been bombarded by narratives of the most disquieting nature, distortions through either misreporting or media misconceptions of what the BBC feature actually conveyed. The statement read in part: “The first–and most urgent – correction, of course, is to re-state that this is an ancient tale that is firmly situated in the past tense. In other words, I have not been under any cancer-related condition for over five years. Indeed, it was in order to avoid creating any such anxieties that I refrained from even revealing my own ordeal until I had fully and successfully concluded treatment. “I made the original revelation in 2015, in support of the late Professor Femi Williams’ drive to set up an Africa Cancer Centre in Nigeria. It did not fail to strike an instructive chord that I had been a founding participant in that health initiative, little suspecting at the time that I was already a carrier of the enemy virus,” he said. Soyinka said more worrisome, was that some of the reportage suggested that he criticized Nigerians for seeking treatment outside the country, which he described as “outright nonsense.” According to him, “Those who are able must seek health from wherever, including the outer planets, as long as a nation fails to provide even the most rudimentary but effective and sustainable health facilities for her own citizens. Indeed, I called it a shame that a nation as resource endowed as Nigeria has failed in that fundamental aspect, since it privileges just a few as against the totality. “I lamented a situation where a nation’s president leaves his station again and again for weeks on end to seek treatment outside his nation, while the health system over which he presides steadily collapses around him. “I repeat: I have yet to see the programme, but perhaps I should start thinking of my next collaboration with the BBC or any other public awareness outreach, this time, around the urgent theme of a different form of cancerous affliction: the cancer of illiteracy.” Vanguard News Nigeria. WOLE Soyinka was in the news last week for a comment he made to Zainab Badawi on Hardtalk, an interview programme on the British Broadcasting Service, BBC. Badawi started by asking if Soyinka thought his generation of older Nigerians have failed the people and he responded in the affirmative. The… May 1, 2019 In "News" Professor Wole Soyinka has stated that he sees no reason why people would have to go as far as Canada, Europe for treatment available in Nigeria. Reacting to questions on how his wife felt when she heard that he was diagnosed for cancer in 2014, the Nobel Laureate explained that… November 26, 2019 In "News" ABEOKUTA—NOBEL Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka, yesterday, gave a shocking revelation of how he was diagnosed and eventually cured of deadly prostate cancer. November 26, 2014 In "News"