THE Nigerian Gas Association (NGA), is set to hold its 20th Anniversary on November 1, 2019, at the Eko Hotel Convention Centre in Lagos. This landmark ceremony, proudly supported by NLNG, the Lagos State Ministry of Energy, Shell companies in Nigeria – Shell Nigeria Gas (SNG), Shell Exploration and Production Company Limited (SNEPCo) and the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC) –  Axxela Limited, Anoh Gas Processing Company, Aiteo Group, Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), Falcon Corporation, Frontier Oil Limited, and a host of other stakeholders will be attended by industry leaders, government officials and captains of industries for an exclusive evening of grand gala, awards, fine dining, enthralling performances and high-level networking. Founded in 1999 by a few industry giants at the time, such as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), the Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG), Chevron Nigeria Limited, the Nigerian Gas Company (NGC), Elf Petroleum(now Total E&P Nigeria Limited), Mobil Producing Nigeria, the Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) and Conoco Energy Nigeria Limited, the Nigerian Gas Association has evolved to a more diverse yet formidable body of over 124 corporate members and 2125 individual members working with a vision to improve the nation’s economy through the optimal maximization of its abounding Natural Gas reserves. “Natural Gas is that one singular resource Nigeria can leverage to create transformative change across various sectors and spheres of industry. As the NGA, we have worked resolutely over the past twenty years to foster a legal, regulatory and policy landscape for gas that is attractive to participants and investors, with the attendant multiplier benefits to the nation at large.” Mrs. Audrey Joe-Ezigbo President, Nigerian Gas Association. Vanguard Experts in the oil and gas industry are of the view that Nigeria may lose her place in the international scene if drastic measures are not put in place to utilise the country’s gas resources, in view of the growing demand of shale gas in the international markets. October 1, 2012 In "Sweet Crude" An air of uncertainty hovers around the execution of some major liquefied natural gas, LNG projects in Nigeria, as partners are still undecided on the wisdom of their investments. July 16, 2013 In "Energy" Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited, SPDC, has concluded plans to develop a new gas project in the Niger Delta. June 21, 2017 In "News"