The United States authorities have frozen about $14.2 million in bank accounts linked to companies registered by Allen Onyema, the chairman of Air Peace Limited. Mr Onyema and Ejiroghene Eghagha, Air Peace’s head of finance and administration, were recently indicted for alleged money laundering and bank fraud in the United States. Both suspects strongly deny the allegations and said they looked forward to proving their innocence in court. The charges were first made public by the United States Department of Justice on Friday night. The charges said Mr Onyema used several companies he set up in the U.S. to launder funds and commit bank fraud through issuance of counterfeit letters of credit. Some of the companies’ bank accounts in the U.S. and Canada had been frozen with their substantial balances as part of the investigation, court documents showed. The documents showed that $4,017,852.51 was seized from JP Morgan Chase Bank account number ending in 5512 held in the name of Springfield Aviation Company, LLC. Another $4,593,842.05 held in Bank of Montreal with account number ending 7523 in the name of Springfield Aviation Inc. was also seized. American government also traced and seized $5,634,842.04 held in Bank of Montreal with account number ending in 515 in the name of Bluestream Aero Services, Inc. American law enforcement authorities indicated in the charge document that efforts had commenced to secure final forfeitures of the funds. In an earlier statement Saturday, Mr Onyema said he was innocent. “As the press statement clearly stated, these are indictment (sic) that only contains charges,” the statement said. “I am innocent of all charges and the US government will find no dirt on me because I have never conducted business with any illegalities. “Be rest assured that I also have my lawyers on this and these mere allegations will be refuted. I never laundered money in my life, neither have I committed bank fraud anywhere in the world. Every Kobo I transferred to the US for aircraft purchase went through the Central Bank of Nigeria LC regime and all were used for the same purpose. “The American companies that received the funds are still in business. I never took a penny from any US bank or Nigerian bank. I am willing to defend my innocence in the US courts,” the AirPeace CEO stated. Vanguard Nigeria News Allen Ifechukwu Athan Onyema, the Chairman, CEO, and founder of Air Peace, a Nigerian airline, has been charged with bank fraud and money laundering for moving more than $20 million from Nigeria through United States bank accounts in a scheme involving false documents based on the purchase of airplanes. The… November 23, 2019 In "News" The Chairman and CEO of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, has described bank fraud and money laundering allegations by the United States Attorney as false. The United States Attorney’s Office stated that Allen Onyema has been involved in fraud of about $20m, using bank accounts credited to his name in… November 23, 2019 In "News" Air Peace By Lawani Mikairu A team of legal luminaries have been briefed by the chairman of Air Peace airline, Barrister Allen Onyema, to prove that the fraud and money laundering allegations against him and his Executive Director, Finance and Administration, Ejiroghene Eghagha by the US Attorney in Atlanta, Georgia… November 23, 2019 In "News"