Fola Tinubu, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Primero Transport Services Limited has stated that it cost transport operators about N3.6 trillion to generate energy in Nigeria. Speaking at the just concluded Energy Resource Risk and Governance Summit in Lagos, he said the huge energy consumption in the sector, calls for an emergency intervention of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), as an alternative energy source that fits into the budget. Also speaking, the Managing Director, Blue Camel Energy, Suleman Yusuf called on state agencies and public institutions to create a plan that will make Nigeria’s electric run interdependently on carbon-free energy sources to cater for the world geometric population growth which is projected to be about 1.6 billion by 2035. Suleman hopes 30 percent of Nigeria’s electricity will come from renewable sources like wind, solar and nuclear. “We know the importance of a true shift to reliance on renewable energy sources in reducing our carbon footprint, growing our economy, and creating the clean energy jobs of the future,” Suleman said in his presentation. The Governor of Lagos State, His Excellency Babajide SanwoOlu represented by Lagos State Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Mr Olalere Odusote stated that Lagos State is working towards ensuring that the State meets the urgency of the challenges brought on by climate change. “This will allow us to accomplish many of the clean energy goals laid out today, and we look forward to working with stakeholders on the next steps needed to accomplish all of them.” “The path to achieving a sustainable energy future is not through a utility monopoly whose profit model is built on expensive fossil fuel projects.” the Governor added. Dr. Omawunmi Kola-Lawal, Environmental & Social Risk Manager at Africa Finance Corporation points out the need to consider the possible risk attached in the course of building large energy infrastructure. She deployed the Tripple bottom line ideal (People, Planet, Profit) to reiterate the need to build infrastructure without creating other problems in society. Ms Mobola Faloye, ED/CRO-Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria, proffers a guiding rule for concerned power brokers. She said the essence of conceptualization is to give a clearly defined criterion for evaluation and assessment, “Let’s see sustainability from the angle of meeting the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generation”, she hinted. The convener, Joachim Adenusi in his remarks stated that the world is moving ahead of Nigeria in innovation and development. Going solar is not just an eco-friendly goal, an ambition that would help fight climate change. It’s a business reality, he said. He added: “While Nigeria is busy discovering crude in the north, America is planning to get rid of gas-powered vehicles. This summit inspired by Conrad Clark’s Nigeria Ltd, rekindled innovation and knowledge exchange, towards the advancement of technology and investment across borders of Nigeria, and between the public and private sectors across the board, helping to stimulate sustainable growth for all stakeholders in the energy sector. Vanguard Fola Tinubu, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Primero Transport Services Limited has stated that it cost transport operators about N3.6 trillion to generate energy in Nigeria. November 19, 2019 In "Energy" By Ekaette Bassey In the wake of the energy crisis in Nigeria, a group of seasoned experts converged at the prestigious Four Points by Sheraton, Lagos, to address challenges, opportunities and explore solutions for new ideas on energy generation, transmission and distribution to achieve sustainable economic growth by 2030. The… October 21, 2019 In "News" The 1-day summit themed ENERGY FOR SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH aims to bring together leaders of the industry, government, and advocacy organizations to shape Nigeria’s energy policy agenda and facilitate the country’s progress towards a clean energy economy. October 8, 2019 In "News"