IN line with its commitment to ensure that international best practices on road safety and vehicle maintenance are adhered to in Nigeria, Winpart Nigeria, a division of CFAO Motors has partnered with Philips a leading world bulb manufacturer, in the training of dealers, technicians, and motorists on modern technologies and innovations in the manufacturing of lighting products in the automotive industry. The technical training and networking event amongst automotive professionals, themed, “Knowledge Update on Current Technologies and Future Development in Vehicle Vision” which took place at the Mitsubishi show room in AdeolaOdeku Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, harped on genuine concern for safety and driving comfort. In his opening speech, the Managing Director, CFAO Nigeria Plc, Mr. Thomas Pelletier, notes that “CFAO has been committed to delivering value to Nigerian consumers for the past 117 years.” According to him, “we are a partner of choice for leading automotive brands and we take road safety seriously. In a bid to address safety issues, we have collaborated with leading Original Equipment Manufacturers, OEMs, to make genuine auto parts available to Nigerians in less than two hours through a quick delivery system. The use of genuine OEM parts is not only cost-effective but is also necessary to save lives by avoiding mishaps that could result from the use of fake parts”. On his part, Sales Leader, Middle East andAfrica After market, from Philips, a leading bulb manufacturer in the world, Akhoun Khalil, noted that “road safety starts with seeing and being seen. More than 80 per cent of accidents occur during nighttime and under bad weather conditions. Breaking this down further, 37 per cent accounts for strong injuries while 46 per cent accounts for the deadly road accidents we see.” Proffering solutions, Khalil recommended that, motorists ensure the alignment of the headlamps is checked by a professional while halogen bulbs should be replaced after 40, 000km or every two years. Also, he stressed the change of headlights by pairs for symmetrical performance. Winpart which is currently operational in several African countries is a world-class OEM spare parts brand distributor to fleets, retail shops, independent repair networks, and customers. It is open for B2B and B2C ordering, either through calls or through its e-ordering platforms which will be up in no distant time. Vanguard By Theodore Opara DETERMINED to offer its customers a wide range of affordable quality cars, frontline auto distributor, CFAO Motors, has kick-started the distribution of Suzuki vehicles in Nigeria. Managing Director of CFAO Motors/CFAO Country Delegate, Mr. Thomas Pelletier, stated that his company took over the Suzuki car franchise to… June 7, 2019 In "Motoring" DETERMINED to  continuously satisfy its teeming customers, Massilia Motors, sole distributor of Mitsubishi vehicles in Nigeria and a joint venture between CFAO and CHANRAI Group, has unvealed the all new Mitsubishi L200 Pickup. April 12, 2019 In "Motoring" THE much awaited Yamaha Crux Rev Motorcycle was launched into the Nigerian commercial motorcycle market by CFAO Yamaha Motor Nigeria Limited. September 21, 2018 In "Motoring"