Ogun State Ministry of Justice has been commended for the 50 percent increase on its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), compared to what was projected in the budget for the year. Three jailed for impersonation in Ibadan(Opens in a new browser tab) Chairman, House Committee on monitoring and performance for the 2019 budget, Mr. Solomon Osho, with other members gave the commendation at the oversight function, held at the Conference room of the Ministry in Abeokuta. Osho lauded the level of achievement within a period of six months, stating that the Ministry had been able to acquire 63.5 percent of its earnings, just within a short period of time. Earlier, the Solicitor General and Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs. Yetunde Oresanya, said the present administration had been supportive since its inception, which she noted had aided the Ministry’s feat. She however, disclosed that, for better productivity, the Ministry needs more office space with furniture, internet facilities, library equipment and provision of more vehicles to ease mobility. Jonathan, Wike, John-Jonah, Alaibe absent from PDP Mega rally in Bayelsa(Opens in a new browser tab) “Although the state government had made some arrangement in terms of mobility, there would be need for provision of more vehicles based on the consideration that the Ministry travels to all judicial districts across the state on regular basis,” she said. In his remark, Director, Public Prosecution Department, Mr. Yemi Adewole, pointed out that, aside material resources, there was also the need for more lawyers and secretariat administrative staff, noting that the volume of criminal matters grow as the population increases. Vanguard The Economic Confidential has released the Annual States Viability Index ( ASVI) for which shows that seventeen (17) States are insolvent as their Internally Generated Revenues (IGR) in 2018 were far below 10% of their receipts from the Federation Account Allocations (FAA) in the same year. May 12, 2019 In "Business" Recently, the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State announced an impressive increase in the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) receipts through the sterling performance of the Enugu State Internal Revenue Service, under the chairmanship of Mr. Emeka Odo. August 12, 2017 In "News" Since Governor Godwin Obaseki kicked-off the implementation of his governance blueprint in Edo State, indigenes are faced with an intriguing uncertainty of what they are going to wake up to every morning when dusk turns to dawn. July 1, 2017 In "Politics"