The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) Response Team said it had taken measures to minimise the risk of explosion from a leaking pipeline at Baruwa area, Jakande, Ipaja, Lagos. The Director-General of LASEMA, Dr Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Tuesday. According to him, the team discovered that petrol was leaking from the pipeline at Baruwa area, Jakande in Ipaja. He explained that further information gathered at the scene revealed that the cause of the leakage was due to improper sealing of the pipeline. “We were also informed that the pipeline had been damaged before now. “Safety measures have been taken by our response team and officials of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) by blanketing the region of leakage with chemicals to avoid explosion. “No casualty was recorded. The LASEMA response team, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and Lagos State Neighbourhood Agency (LNSC) are on ground to ensure the safety of people and their property, ’’ Oke-Osanyintolu said. He added that the Maintenance Team of NNPC had done the proper sealing off of the affected parts of the pipeline. He said that while the operation would last, the use of fire had been prohibited in the area. At least two, yet to be identified persons have been consumed in an early hour fire on Thursday, when a pipeline of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC,  exploded at Ijagemo, Ijegun area of Ikotun-Igando Local Government Area. July 4, 2019 In "News" LAGOS—A commercial driver and a night security guard were, yesterday, burnt to death, as no fewer than 20 persons sustained different degrees of burns after a Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, pipeline exploded in Ijegun, Alimosho Local Government of Lagos State. July 5, 2019 In "Crime Guard" The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Zubairu Muazu, on Thursday warned hoodlums and pipeline vandals to desist from further vandalism of oil pipelines in the area or face the law. July 4, 2019 In "News"