The Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Tanko Muhammad, on Monday, cautioned judges of superior courts in Nigeria to desist from using technicalities to hinder justice delivery. Muhammad gave the advice in Abuja in his address at the opening of 2019 All Nigeria Judges’ Conference of Superior Courts holding at the National Judicial Institute. The theme of the conference was: “Sustaining Democracy through Effective and Efficient Administration of Justice’’. He said there was a need for judges to redouble their standards in the process of discharging adjudicatory functions in order to sustain public confidence. The CJN said: “In order to sustain public confidence in the judiciary, judges must continue to be proactive by not allowing technicalities to stand in the way of substantive justice.’’ He noted that relying on technicalities in justice dispensation contributed to the delay of justice delivery. “Technicalities in itself sometimes constitute unreasonable delay in dispensing with cases. “Timely disposition of cases in our courts will in no small measure shore up public confidence in the judiciary,’’ Justice Muhammad added. He said the delay in justice delivery and the volume of cases on the dockets of courts still left much to be desired. He, however, said that urgent reforms were being put in place to take care of the challenges. “In our desire to curb the delay in justice delivery, we have automated the Nigerian judiciary and developed and deployed the Nigerian Case Management System (NCMS) software,’’ he concluded. (NAN) Vanguard ABUJA- President Muhammadu Buhari, on Monday, said there was need for the establishment of a special court that would solely entertain criminal cases, saying it would enhance speedy administration and dispensation of justice in the country. November 25, 2019 In "News" Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen, yesterday said the only way to sustain public confidence in the judiciary was for judges to be proactive by not allowing technicalities to stand in the way of substantive justice. June 6, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights" The Acting Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Tanko Muhammad, has ordered the inspection of all Area, Sharia and Customary courts in the country. March 25, 2019 In "News"