Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has said that the state will release N500 million to offset part of the debt owing the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso. Makinde made this known on Tuesday during a stakeholders’ meeting on the challenges confronting the institution, held at the university, in Ogbomoso. The governor said that he would not shy away from taking up responsibilities in charting the way forward for the institution. He stressed that Oyo State could shoulder the responsibility of sole ownership of the institution. Makinde further disclosed that he had proposed 20 per cent for education in the 2020 budget. He cautioned the institution’s members of staff against causing an unnecessary rift with Osun state, saying every worker must be assured of job security, irrespective of where he came from. Earlier, the institution’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Michael Ologunde, said that the institution could assist the nation in achieving its industrialisation move, if properly funded. Ologunde disclosed that the total indebtedness of the institution stood at over N6 billion. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that unions and other stakeholders, who spoke at the meeting, called for single ownership of the university and kicked against its privatisation. They also wanted the two states to offset all the outstanding salaries to enhance smooth academic calendar. Vanguard News Nigeria. IBADAN—A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Oyo State, Engr Seyi Makinde, has said he has a document that “misled the Supreme Court from ceding Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso to Oyo State in 2010.” September 17, 2018 In "News" The gubernatorial aspirant on platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State, Engr Seyi Makinde has said he has a document that "misled the Supreme Court from ceding Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso to Oyo State in 2010". September 16, 2018 In "News" …say management owed them eleven months salaries By Shina Abubakar, Osogbo Disturbed by the intermittent crisis rocking Ladoke Akintola University Technology ( LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, workers at the institution's College of Health Sciences, Osogbo have called on its Chancellor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other stakeholders in Nigeria to wade into the… October 14, 2019 In "News"