Awards winning indigenous singer and ‘Gbese’ crooner, Qudus Fakoya Oluwadamilare, popularly known as Qdot, during the week, surprised his mum, Mrs Folasade, with a magnificent house to celebrate her birthday. Qdot, who is currently making waves with hits back to back, in an interview with newsmen, said he always wanted to see his mother happy at all times, reiterating that he couldn’t have got a better mum. Speaking, the Yoruba Boi Music frontline act, QDot, gave thanks to God for making his plans work out, noting that it was a dream come true. “Man proposes, God disposes. I appreciate God that has made this day a reality. My plan to surprise my mum with a house did not fail.” He further said: “She deserves more than this because she is a super mum. I understand better because we have passed through it together. This is even the smallest thing in my plan to do for her. If I decide to worship her with all I have, it’s worth it. Those who are privileged to have the greatest mum like mine will understand me.” Meanwhile, it was a double celebration for Qdot’s family as he added another feather to his cap. His in-depth use of the Yoruba language to make great sound and delivery, which has really helped his music career grown also earned him several accolades. Again, he just won the Best Indigenous Artist in the just concluded OYA Awards 2019, held in Lagos State a day after his mum’s birthday surprise. Vanguard It’s been twenty years since I last heard the heart broken story of my run – away biological father, somehow my mother had passed the stag of talking about it. I was told by her that I was still in the womb when he ran away from his responsibility April 23, 2011 In "Is It Beyond Pardon?" Mr. Segun Adebutu is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Petrolex Oil and Gas, and all its subsidiaries including Bluebridge Minerals Ltd. and Oladiran Engineering & Trade Ltd. June 8, 2019 In "News" “It wasn’t a question of money as he had some A-list clients, he just hated spending money. Whenever he promised to take mum abroad, he often reneged on his promise and went on business trips instead. March 24, 2018 In "News"