FORTUNE, aged 20, has narrated to policemen how her father started having sex with her when she was 13 years old, and that he would demand sex before paying her school fees. Her father, the Presiding Pastor of Mount Zion Light House Full Gospel Church, Obio Imo Lane, Uyo, Apostle Williams Okon Bassey, has been arrested by operatives of the Akwa Ibom State Police Command. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Odiko MacDon, who revealed that six others, including another pastor, were arrested for alleged incest and defilement, told newsmen that Fortune said she got pregnant thrice. He added: “The victim stated that her father started having sexual intercourse with her at the age of 13. The continuous sexual assault led her to become pregnant on three different occasions and the pregnancies were aborted by her mother. “She further revealed that the first time her father defiled her was in the church vestry. He threatened to place a curse on her if she dares tell anyone about his escapades. He also demands sex before paying her school fees or catering for her needs.” The Police Command’s Spokesperson added that “on October 31, one Anwanga Essien Udo of 7, Itiam Street, Uyo, aged 33, a Pastor with Restoration Bible Church, was arrested for having unlawful carnal knowledge of his 10-year-old step-daughter(name withheld). “When she was left alone with him, rather than be a father to her, he opted to turn her to a sex-machine.” The police spokesman warned perpetrators of such act to desist forthwith or be willing to contend with the full wrath of the law. He, therefore, urged parents to also make haste in reporting every form of sexual harassment when noticed to the police or other Security Agencies in the state timely, as concealment of these crimes has only led to an increase in violations. He commended the partnership of FEYREP, the pet project of the wife of the state governor as well as the good people of the state for their continued trust, encouragement and timely information. Vanguard ...Aborts three pregnancies for him with the help of her mother By Harris Emmanuel & Chioma Onuegbu An Akwa Ibomite, Fortune,  aged 20 has revealed that the first time her father defiled her was in the church vestry and that he threatened to place a curse on her if she… November 24, 2019 In "Metro" Harris Emmanuel & Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo The Nigeria Police, Akwa Ibom state command said it has arrested seven persons including two pastors for alleged incest and defilement, declaring war against perpetrators of the dastardly acts. The Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Odiko MacDon in a statement at the weekend,… November 17, 2019 In "Metro" Often, Nigerians are inundated with strange news of fathers who are supposed to protect their daughters from sexual molesters, only to turn out to be the sexual predators. April 7, 2018 In "Crime Alert"