Nigeria’s President, Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in a letter written to the Senate wants it to consider implementing the Companies and Allied Act (CAMA) which allows the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) to approve the registration of companies. In the letter, Buhari quoted section 26(5) of the extant Companies and Allied Matters Act (amended) which allows for such authority. “Pursuant to Section 58 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended), I hereby forward the Companies and Allied Matters Bill, 2019 for consideration and passage into law.” The letter reads. It continues: “The Senate may wish to note that, in this Bill, Section 26(5) of the extant Companies and Allied Matters Act has been amended to: Preserve the powers of the Attorney-General of the Federation to approve the registration of Companies Limited by Guarantee: and Reflect the Ease of Doing Business principles in Executive Order No. 1 of 2017 on the Promotion of Transparency and Efficiency in the Business Environment.” The letter, which was dated November 26, 2019, was read on the floor by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, during plenary. In a related development, President Buhari, in another letter requested for the approval of 2016- 2018  External Borrowing by the Federal Government. According to the President, the loan would be used to execute key infrastructural projects across the country. President Buhari, in the letter, said the Eighth National Assembly approved only a part of the External Borrowing request forwarded to it in September 2016. The President Buhari is representing the request for $ 30 billion external loans for the projects between 2016 and 2018 against the backdrop that it was rejected in the 8th Senate. President Buhari had asked for an external loan of $29.96 billion to execute key infrastructural projects across the country between 2016 and 2018. According to him, the rejection then stalled the Federal Government’s implementation of critical projects spanning across the mining, power, health, agricultural, water and educational sectors. The letter reads: “Pursuant to Section 21 and 27 of the Debt Management Office (Establishment) Act, I hereby request for Resolutions of the Senate to approve the Federal Government’s 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing plan, as well as relevant projects under this plan. “Specifically, the Senate is invited to note that: While I had transmitted the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan to the Eighth National Assembly in September 2016, this plan was not approved in its entirety by the Legislature, only the Federal Government’s Emergency projects for the North East, (Four (4) States’ projects and one (1) China Exam Bank Assisted Railway Modernisation Projects for Lagos – Ibadan Segment) we’re approved, out of a total of thirty-nine (39) projects. “The Outstanding projects in the plan that were not approved by the Legislature are, nevertheless, critical to the delivery of the Government’s policies and programmes relating to power, mining, roads, agriculture, health, water and educational sectors. “These outstanding projects are well advanced in terms of their preparation, consistent with the 2016 Debt Sustainability Analysis undertaken by the Debt Management Office and were approved by the Federal Executive Council in August 2016 under the 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing Plan. “Accordingly, I have attached, for your kind consideration, relevant information from the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning the specific outstanding projects under the 2016 – 2018 External Borrowing plan for which legislative approval is currently sought. “I have also directed the Minister to make herself available to provide any additional information or clarification which you may require to facilitate prompt approval of the outstanding projects under this plan. Meanwhile, the Acting Chairman of Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Godiya Akwashiki, All Progressives Congress, APC, Nasarawa South when asked if the Senate has got the details of the request, he simply pleaded for patience and the Senate will get it. Recall that the 8th Senate under the leadership of Senator Bukola Saraki had in November 2016 rejected the request when the President wrote the Senate, seeking for approval of the loan. The Saraki led Senate threw out the request on the grounds that the letter that conveyed the message was not accompanied by a borrowing plan. The 8th Senate did not even discuss the request as it died immediately it was mentioned as an executive communication by the then Senate Leader, Senator Ali Ndume. Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday sought the reconsideration and approval of the National Assembly on the 2016-2018 External Borrowing Plan of the Federal Government. Buhari’s request is contained in a letter address to President of Senate Ahmad Lawan and read at the plenary on Thursday. “Request for the National Assembly… November 28, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, Thursday wrote to the Senate, again requesting for the approval of 2016- 2018  External Borrowing by the Federal Government. November 28, 2019 In "News" The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Monday, failed to persuade the Federal High Court in Abuja to grant an interim injunction stopping the Senate from probing the controversial reinstatement of former Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Mr.… January 8, 2018 In "News"