Tesla Inc Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk indicated in a tweet on Sunday that the electric carmaker received 200,000 orders for its electric pickup truck within three days of its launch. Musk, who has been regularly tweeting about the Cybertruck’s features since its launch late Thursday, has also been updating his followers with the number of orders the company has received. In an earlier tweet, Musk said the company had received 146,000 orders for Cybertruck and tweeted again on Sunday saying “200K” – an apparent reference to the number of orders. The company’s website shows that immediate payment of $100 is required to reserve an order for the Cybertruck, which has a starting price of $39,900. The launch of its futuristic pickup on Thursday suffered a setback when the electric vehicle’s “armored glass” windows shattered in a much-anticipated unveiling. The overall look of the electric vehicle had worried Wall Street on Friday, driving the automaker’s shares to close 6.1% lower. During the launch, Musk had taken aim at the design, power, and durability of mainstream trucks, only to be shaken when his boast about his new vehicle’s windows backfired. Separately, Musk said the Cybertruck is Tesla’s last product unveil for a while. Tesla plans to start manufacturing the Cybertruck around late-2021. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk said on Saturday that there have been about 150,000 orders thus far for the electric carmaker’s Cybertruck, which was unveiled late on Thursday. “146k Cybertruck orders so far, with 42% choosing dual, 41% tri & 17% single motor”, Musk said in a tweet, adding… November 24, 2019 In "Technology" Tesla CEO Elon Musk botched a test of the company’s first electric pickup truck Thursday night after he asked his chief designer to throw a metal ball through the “bulletproof” glass. But the glass cracked, drawing groans from the crowd gathered in Los Angeles for the “Blade Runner”-inspired vehicle’s unveiling.… November 23, 2019 In "Technology" Tesla Inc has started taking orders for its Model 3 sedan in China for a deposit of 8,000 yuan ($1,153.60), according to the electric carmaker’s China website. January 2, 2019 In "Technology"