The Edo State Chapter of the PDP has again descended on Gov. Godwin Obaseki, describing his tenure as a hardship phase for the people. Addressing a news conference on Wednesday in Benin, the Chairman of the PDP in the state, Chief Dan Orbih, said that Obaseki had failed to offer leadership to make the people enjoy the dividends of democracy. According to Orbih, the governor should face governance and stay out of the endless crisis rocking the state’s chapter of the APC. Orbih, who has been a vocal critic of Obaseki’s style of governance, said his advice was imperative because the crisis in the APC had become a distraction for the governor, preventing him from offering meaningful governance. He lamented that Obaseki’s three-year tenure had only brought agony and deprivation to the populace, denying them the benefits expected from democracy. The PDP chieftain also advised Obaseki to desist from the “yearly jamboree” of inviting people for talks in the name of marking the anniversary but to channel resources to tackling problems. “It is obvious that the APC has nothing to offer to the people of Edo State. As at today, Edo State is the only state where only a few elected members of the state assembly are sitting. “More so, the governor has not delivered on the 200,000 jobs he promised youths in Edo State. “Our roads are begging for attention. There is worsening insecurity, in spite of the huge amount of security vote he withdraws monthly. “He should, henceforth, commence the support of security agencies in the state for efficiency and if he cannot, he should stop withdrawing or collecting security votes. Orbih also decried the inability of the government to pay bursaries and grant scholarships to Edo students in various institutions of learning, lamenting the dilapidation of various schools in the state. According to him, the least the government can do for the youths is to employ more teachers to tackle the dearth of teachers in the state. “The APC promised better days for Edo State and more than 11 years after the people have nothing to show for the promise. “Edo people should remain resolute and committed in effecting a change in government come 2020. Orbih also condemned the state government’s clampdown on civil society groups for demanding accountability to determine the status of infrastructure in the state. “The governor owes it a duty to account for every action of his in the state.” On the defection of Mr Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the PDP’s flag-bearer in the 2016 gubernatorial elections to the APC, Orbih said that Ize-Iyamu was yet to inform the PDP of his decision, noting however, that the PDP in the state was intact, stronger, more united and bolder. He disclosed that the party had concluded plans for the mass mobilization of voters, ahead of Edo 2020. According to him, Edo PDP knows how to manage itself, and in 2020, we will do the needful because we want a party that can manage crisis. Source: NAN Vanguard News The Edo chapter of the PDP on Tuesday said Gov. Godwin Obaseki’s several foreign trips since assumption of office on Nov. 12, 2016 had brought no economic benefit to the state. November 14, 2017 In "News" EDO State chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party( PDP), Chief Dan Orbih has accused Godwin Obaseki of ballooning the Edo State debt profile from N4 Billion 2008 to over N300billion and $245billion in 2018. August 11, 2018 In "News" Edo State Government and the state chapter of All Progressives Congress, APC, have described as lies and mischief, allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, that the Governor Godwin Obaseki administration was selling off the assets of the state. April 19, 2018 In "News"