Otuya Chukwuneku Valentino, popularly known as Chuvano, is a song writer and afro pop artist signed to HMB Entertainment. Chuvano, has overtime delivered classical music with deep rooted lyrics. DJ Cuppy has stolen my heart — Afrobeat Artiste, Akeju(Opens in a new browser tab) His teeming fans have been likening him to other artists like Kizz Daniel and even Victor AD. But in a recent encounter, Chuvano told our correspondent who he thinks he should be likened to. He is emphatic that he is the new school 2Face Idibia and wants to be so, hinting that he is pressing to surpass 2Face’s attainment: “I don’t sing about things that can only be imagined or tunes that can only be danced away with seasons. ‘’I make music that both the young and old can relate with. My music preaches real life ideologies and promotes positivity. “There’s always a strong message of motivation in my songs and the intention is to get people inspired towards success and greatness when they listen to my music. “I haven’t seen any Afrobeat artiste go this deep lyrically like I do, except maybe Burna Boy. “So I shouldn’t be likened to anyone else in the industry other than 2Baba and Burna Boy. The 25-year-old singer and entertainer who hails from Delta State, was born on Feb 14, 1994, in Kano. He is a graduate of the University of Benin where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree (B.A Hons) in English and Literature. At the moment, he has featured in several entertainment-related activities such as  modelling, acting, broadcasting, event management and singing. Those who Chuvano admit he is famous for his high-tempo, romantic and motivational studio single “Smile” which features Teni the Entertainer and “Village Meeting” which features DJ KB. Burna Boy refunds ‘boring’ fan, Nigerians react(Opens in a new browser tab) His most recent body of work “Tiny Boy,” has earned him a new nick “Tiny Boy of Africa,” signaling that he might be the very big act this generation of music lovers will be waiting for. Vanguard Former member of ‘Plantashun Boi’, Ahmedu Augustine, popularly known as Blackface, has threatened to drag his former friend and multi-award winning artiste, Innocent Idibia (2face) to court for allegedly stealing his song. January 26, 2016 In "Entertainment" Legendary afro-pop singer, Innocent Idibia, popularly known as ‘2face’, has shown support for the Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs. The multi-talented singer made his presence felt at a recent event organized by the United Nations Refugees Agency to mark the world refugee day. June 24, 2017 In "Entertainment" When 2face bestrode the Nigerian music scene likea colossus in the 90s, one thing was uppermost in his mind - to rule the world with his music. And today, 2face, born Innocent Idibia, has not only conquered with his music, he has set a new record that generations yet to… September 29, 2018 In "Music"