The Controller, Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS) in Akwa Ibom, Mr Alex Oditah, on Saturday confirmed that an inmate died in Eket Correctional Centre. Oditah told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that preliminary investigation revealed that the inmate died of difficulties in breathing. According to him, colleagues of the deceased in the correctional centre on Saturday rose in sympathy over his death. Oditah said: “I received a call on the death of one inmate from the Eket Correctional Centre on Saturday. I quickly move in to see the situation myself. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that the inmate died of difficulty in breathing. This is regrettable but it could have happened to anybody. “Due to the incident, inmates in the Correctional centre reacted over the death of their colleague, but the warders on duty were able to control them,” Oditah said. Oditah urged members of the public to disregard rumours that the death of the inmate was caused by Warders on duty. Oditah said that he mobilised other security agencies to the area to forestall any breakdown of law and order. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Controller General of the Nigeria Correctional Service NCoS, Ja'afaru Ahmed has set up a panel to investigate the conduct of its personnel at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre with a view to ascertaining the authenticity of a report by the International Centre for Investigative Reporting ICIR… October 25, 2019 In "News" A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Victor Akande, has commended the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola’s commitment to decongest and improve the condition of correctional centres in six months. October 25, 2019 In "News" The Controller General of Nigerian Correctional Service, Ja’afaru Ahmed, has set up a panel to investigate Ikoyi Prisons following the exposure of corrupt practices in Nigerian prisons by Fisayo Soyombo, an undercover journalist. Soyombo spent eight days as an inmate in Ikoyi Prison, to track corruption in Nigeria’s criminal justice system.… October 23, 2019 In "News"