Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has reiterated that President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to close all the land borders in the country remained the best for the economic development of Nigeria. He explained that although Nigerians are presently feeling the pains in view of inflated prices of edible commodity like rice, the PDP chieftain is however of the view that the suffering will be short lived. Onuesoke   who   made the statement while addressing newsmen in Warri,Delta State pointed out that   the border closure will force Nigeria government   to address certain fundamental issues in the country’s economy, adding that closing the border is an opportunity to encourage local producers to increase their output and make something positive out of the situation.   “When we close our doors to the importation of some goods,   the locally made goods will enjoy patronage. By so doing,   we are increasing the Gross Domestic Product of the nation, creating employment for our local people and at the same time, poverty will be eradicated.” He disclosed that Nigeria spend a lot of foreign currency to import petroleum products which are smuggled across the border at the expense of   draining our foreign exchange to import the petroleum products. Onuesoke stated that the partial closure of Nigeria’s borders has prevented the smuggling of 10.78 million litres of the Premium Motor Spirit, popularly known as petrol, between August and September 2019. “Figures obtained from the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency   in Abuja showed that the truck-out of petrol within the last one month declined by over 10 million litres.   This a great benefit to Nigeria economy,” he observed. Vanguard A Chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Delta, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has hailed the submission of former President Olusegun Obasanjo in which he advised President Muhammadu Buhari to rise to the challenge posed by the current recession in Nigeria, adding that the blame game would not solve the… November 25, 2016 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chieftain and former Delta State governorship aspirant, Chief Sunny Okpako Onuesoke has affirmed that Alhaji Atiku Abubakar emerging as PDP presidential candidacy has come stay. June 24, 2018 In "News" A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Delta, State, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has commended former President Olusegun Obasanjo for the recent advice to President Muhammadu Buhari to rise to the challenge posed by the current recession in Nigeria and that the blame game would not solve the problems… November 30, 2016 In "News"