The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, Barr. Natasha Akpoti has allegedly stated that she was attacked, pushed to the ground and denied entrance to the Kogi 2019 election stakeholder’s meeting venue by the men of the Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello. Natasha who made this known via her social media account, Twitter, revealed that the Police and other INEC officials, including the INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood and the Kogi state commissioner of police were present at the scene of the event in Lokoja but did nothing. Recall that Vanguard had reported that INEC had called for a stakeholder’s meeting to addressed perceived violence building up to the election in Kogi state, slated for Saturday 16th November. Reports have also filtered in claiming that the Social democratic party. SDP has opted out of the peace accord organized by INEC owing to the attacks on its governorship candidate Barr Natasha Akpoti. The APC chieftain who spoke on the report denied that those who attacked the SDP candidate were men of the Kogi state Governor, describing the incident as unfortunate and such could never have been ordered by the who he claimed is certain of victory come Saturday. ” I don’t know where this is coming from, it baseless, unfound, malicious and spurious but I can assure you that this is another ploy to discredit the governor. I can categorically tell you that the governor is focused because victory is in sight, He is unperturbed by the smear campaigns.” See Tweet Below  Vanguard Ahead of Saturday's governorship election in Kogi state, the Social Democratic Party SDP has declined to assent to the Peace Accord being spearheaded by the Independent National Electoral Commission INEC following the reported attack on its candidate, Barr. Natasha Akpoti at the venue of the event in Lokoja, the state… November 12, 2019 In "News" AS I write now, I am not too sure that I will be able to readily remember the full name of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate – the major opposition contestant in the November 16, 2019 gubernatorial election in Kogi State. January 2, 2020 In "Viewpoint" **Says SDP, 7 others won't participate due To invalid nominations By Boluwaji Obahopo - Lokoja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said only 23 political parties will be on the Kogi governorship election ballot paper. Social Democratic Party of Nigeria (SDP) and seven other parties are noted would be omitted… October 9, 2019 In "News"