The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has stressed that the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) must executive quality projects in Edo State. Governor Obaseki said this when he addressed a plenary of the state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) at the Bishop Kelly Pastoral Center in Benin City, the state capital. According to him, “NDDC claimed to have used N20 billion to construct roads in the state in the last eight months. We went to President Muhammadu Buhari to complain and it has led to the order of a forensic audit.” The governor said the new board of the commission must work with the state government in ensuring that its projects are of high quality and meet relevant specifications. “I want the new NDDC board to work with Edo State and follow our specifications for road constructions, which are of high quality,” he said. Earlier, when the executive of the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) visited the Government House, the governor also raised concerns on the shoddy jobs executed by the commission. The governor maintained the need for quality projects by the commission against the background of complaints by residents in the state of the substandard quality of projects by the NDDC in the state. Recall that he had conducted a committee of the National Assembly to the scene of a project, where a poor job by a contractor had blocked a manhole and caused flooding, which sacked a community and destroyed property worth millions. Vanguard By Alemma-Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State few days ago called for a probe into the claim by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NNDC) that it spent N20 billion on intervention in roads projects in the state in the last six months which the government… October 4, 2019 In "News" THE Chairman, Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, yesterday said the Commission would establish a Niger Delta Development Bank with a view to sustaining and accelerating developmental efforts of government in the region. May 18, 2017 In "News" BY GABRIEL ENOGHOLASE BENIN - LEADER of the House of Representatives Ad-Hoc Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC),  Abandoned Projects in Edo State, Mr. Sergius Ogun, has expressed disappointment with the state of the commission's abandoned projects in the state, insisting  that some projects that were said to have… October 3, 2019 In "News"