THERE appears to be uncertainty over the information that smugglers are now using waterways other than the sea ports to bring in goods following the closure of land borders. Speaking with Vanguard Maritime Report, National President of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, ANLCA, Tony Iju Nwabunike, said he heard from a good authority that smugglers have resorted to waterways as alternative to land borders and sea ports in ferrying their goods into the country. He wondered why the government did not include the waterways in its border closure action, saying “it must be an oversight on the part of the government.” He advised the Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, to deploy its recently launched boats to effectively police the waterways. Nwabunike said: “They have to close the waterways too to avoid bringing in goods from there. Somebody was telling me that goods still come into Nigeria through Cotonou by water. If that is the case, they should close it up. Customs have to use the boat, let them use it to curb such activities.” Another industry operator who does not want his name in print said that about three to five boatloads of rice and other banned items were being escorted by security agencies into private jetties in Nigeria weekly in the last two months. The source further stated that each of the boats carried an average of 2,000 to 4,000 bags of rice and other items which are discharged in Badagry. However, the National Public Relations Officer, PRO, NCS, Deputy Comptroller, DC, Joseph Attah, told Vanguard Maritime Report that it is not true that the Federal Government did not include the waterways in the border closure. He said the Nigerian Navy, Customs Marine Commands and the Marine Police are all working together to ensure that goods do not come into the country through the waterways. He assured that the waterways were being effectively policed adding that he was not aware of smuggling activities through the waterways. Attah, however, assured that he would pass the information to the sector commander of the suspected areas to double-check. Traders export to Ghana by sea Meanwhile, following the closure of Seme border by the joint military task force after the Federal Government’s directive, Nigerians have resorted to the shipment of goods by the sea to Ghana. A Nigerian trader involved in the shipment of electronics to Accra from Lagos, Ferdinand Uchena, told Vanguard Maritime Report that they now form groups to ship their merchandise to Ghana through the sea ports. Uchena said that most of them have reached the decision to consolidate their cargo for shipment to Accra to save cost, adding that the goods mostly exported were electronics, motor spare parts and other machineries. Vanguard CONTRARY to speculations that smugglers smarting from the closure of land borders have re-routed their activities through the waterways, the Nigeria Customs Service says since the deployment of its sea going patrol boats, Customs Pride, and the Group of Nine, smugglers have largely deserted the use of the waterways to… November 26, 2019 In "News" Smuggling refers to the clandestine transportation of goods or persons past a certain point, or across international borders, in violation of applicable laws or other regulations. It is also defined as an act of importing or exporting goods illegally. January 16, 2011 In "Special Report" FOLLOWING last week’s closure of the Seme border under a joint security operation by the Nigerian government, several stakeholders in the nation’s shipping system have given different dimensions to the situation. August 28, 2019 In "Maritime Report"