One of R. Kelly’s former live-in girlfriends accused the singer on Sunday of forcing her to have two abortions inside his home and revealed other horrifying details of life with the disgraced R&B star. Joycelyn Savage, 24, on Saturday announced she had committed to posting daily on the paid membership platform Patreon about the 52-year-old singer, who is facing sex crimes charges in three states, including federal indictments in Illinois and Brooklyn. Savage said she met Kelly, born Robert Kelly, in 2015, when she was 19 and described how their relationship turned toxic soon after she dropped out of college and moved in with him. “I kept thinking to myself he just wants me to be safe, he wants the best for me he thinks someone is going to take me away from him,” Savage wrote on Sunday, according to The Daily Beast. “But it was me being delusional why would someone claim to love to keep me locked up like some damn animal.” By late 2016 “I realized I was pregnant by this monster,” she wrote. “Eventually, I ended up getting an abortion I was forced to get the surgery done at his house,” Savage wrote. “He didn’t want me going to the hospital because news would break out.” Savage said she had a second abortion in 2018. Once, when Savage called Kelly “Baby” instead of his preferred “Master” or “Daddy” he choked her until she blacked out, she alleged. “I had bruises around my neck, and I was told by him to wear a turtle neck or a scarf to cover them up whenever he would take me out in public,” she wrote. “I was frightened to tell anyone about this because of what he may do next.” The “I Believe I Can Fly” singer would oversee every detail of Savage’s life, including not allowing her to use feminine hygiene products and having an assistant stand by the bathroom door when she showered. “The only time he would care for me is when the media is making him seem bad and saying that I was kept for a hostage,” she wrote. For one damage-control interview with TMZ, Savage said she was starved for days until she memorized word-for-word what she was forced to say during the sit-down. She also detailed some of Kelly’s sexual kinks, including how he urinated on her and other women despite their protests. “I’ve been peed on numerous of times I really didn’t want to say this but the truth needs to be heard,” she wrote. Savage said she became depressed, especially when she was forced to stay in her bedroom while Kelly “would bring different girls home that stayed just like me, and they were definitely younger than me.” “I couldn’t talk to any of them until it was my time I had to wait in my room until rob was ready for me or his assistant will come in get me,” she wrote. “I was forced to come out of my room some days I didn’t feel like being Roberts cum rag or punching bag.” In a statement to Variety on Saturday, Kelly’s lawyer Steven Greenberg accused Savage of seeking “to make money by exploiting her long time, loving relationship with Robert.” “Obviously if she were to tell the truth no one would pay so she has, unfortunately, chosen to regurgitate the stories and lies told by others for her own personal profit,” Greenberg said. Kelly has previously denied any wrongdoing. He is facing federal child pornography charges in Illinois, as well as a racketeering and other charges in Brooklyn and local charges involving sex crimes against minors in Chicago and Minneapolis. He’s been held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in Chicago since July. After his arrest, Savage and his other live-in girlfriend Azriel Clary, 21, defended Kelly in a heated CBS interview. Their parents have repeatedly claimed Kelly brainwashed the pair into staying with him. In an interview on “Good Morning America” Sunday, Savage’s mother said she believes her daughter is finally coming forward because Kelly is behind bars, The Chicago-Sun Times reported. “She’s finally coming to her senses and she’s ready to reveal her story in her own words,” Jonjelyn Savage said. Source: New York Post Vanguard News Lady Gaga has vowed to remove a duet she recorded with R&B singer R.Kelly from streaming services and never collaborate with him again. January 10, 2019 In "Entertainment" R Kelly has been arrested in Chicago on child pornography and federal sex trafficking charges. July 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Some Africans have taken to Twitter to kick against singer, R Kelly’s alleged plan to escape to the continent following alleged sex scandal. January 14, 2019 In "Entertainment"