Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Likud party will hold a leadership vote, a Likud challenger said on Sunday, as pressure mounted on the veteran leader to step aside after his indictment on corruption charges. Israeli media reported the Likud primary would be held in six weeks. A party spokesman was not reachable to confirm the timeline. Gideon Saar, a Likud lawmaker who has challenged Netanyahu, wrote on Twitter that he “welcomes the prime minister’s agreement to hold primaries for party leadership.” Netanyahu’s indictment last Thursday came amid political disarray in Israel, after neither Netanyahu nor his main challenger in the general election, centrist Benny Gantz, secured a majority in parliament in April and September votes. Netanyahu has denied the charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust and said he would stay in office and defend himself. The four-term conservative leader projected business as usual on Sunday, touring the country’s northern frontier and ramping up rhetoric about Iranian threats. Israel’s Supreme Court dismissed a petition by a watchdog group to force Netanyahu to step aside. The Movement for Quality Government in Israel had said in its court filing that the first criminal charges against a sitting prime minister constituted “the crossing of a red line and a grave blow to public trust in ruling institutions”. The court dismissed the petition to force Netanyahu to resign or temporarily recuse himself from office. It said the watchdog had not yet exhausted other avenues, such as petitioning Netanyahu directly and Israel’s attorney general. For his part, Netanyahu kept his focus on security and toured the Golan Heights with top military brass. “I am doing everything needed to carry out government work, Cabinet work … in all necessary ways, to ensure the security of the citizens of Israel and the things that are crucial for Israel,” he said in a video statement. He reiterated concerns over Iran’s attempt to entrench itself militarily in a number of Middle East countries and said Israel “will act to prevent Iran’s attempt to make Iraq and Yemen bases for rocket and missile launches against Israel.” Source: Reuters Vanguard News A watchdog group asked Israel’s top court on Sunday to order Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to step aside after his indictment on corruption charges, adding to the pressure he is facing from within his ruling party. Netanyahu, a four-term conservative leader, has denied the charges of bribery, fraud and breach… November 24, 2019 In "Foreign" Israel's parliament began rushing through a bill on Wednesday to call a third general election within a year as talks between embattled premier Benjamin Netanyahu and his centrist rival broke down ahead of a midnight deadline. A deal to avert a new election must be reached before 11:59 pm (2159… December 11, 2019 In "Foreign" Israeli President Reuven Rivlin on Wednesday received the official final results of last week’s general election, which produced no decisive winner. The centrist Blue and White party led by Benny Gantz finished with a one-seat lead, taking 33 of the parliament’s 120 seats. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s right-wing Likud party… September 25, 2019 In "Foreign"