A former Commissioner of Police in Lagos, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, said on Tuesday most politicians in Nigeria do not believe in God. Tsav stated this in a statement he personally signed in Makurdi, Benue State. He said: “Our politicians do not believe in God and the nothingness of this world. They don’t even think of death. “Our democracy is turning into something else. We seem not to know what democracy even means. Many see it as a means to acquire wealth albeit by fraudulent and dishonest means. He said unless the courts expedite the trial of accused corrupt public officials and possibly convict them to serve as deterrents to others, many would continue to indulge in corrupt practice. Tsav said public condemnation without commiserate punishment by the law would not deter corrupt officials in the country. The former CP added: “The fight against corruption has no impact on our people and that is why politicians are still fighting and killing themselves for elective offices. “If the courts expedite the trial of accused persons facing corruption charges in various courts, perhaps their conviction will serve as a deterrent to others. “This will slow down the urge and madness for corruption.” Tsav said the developments at the just concluded governorship election in Kogi showed that it was time for full amendment of the electoral laws to accommodate stiffer punishment for electoral offenders. He also condemned the killing of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Women’s Leader in Kogi after the election, describing it as the most horrible thing he has heard of in recent times. “I am happy that President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered for a thorough investigation on this dastardly act with a view to bringing all those involved, no matter their status to justice. “Buhari should go beyond that. The electoral laws should be amended for true democracy to take root. “My sad experience during my days in the Nigeria Police Force was that, where the government was interested in a case; such case does not see the light of the day. Let that not happen in this case o!,” Tsav concluded. (NAN)  Vanguard Former Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav says most politicians in Nigeria do not believe in God. November 26, 2019 In "News" Alhaji Abubakar Tsav, Public Complaints Commissioner (PCC), overseeing Benue, has urged the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Alhaji Ibrahim Idris, to intervene toward halting the rising incidences of assassination in the state. November 11, 2017 In "News" Former Lagos CP, Alhaji Abubakar Tsav has hinted that a fair assessment of the war against insurgency by the Nigerian government would rightly place the Service Chiefs such as Lieutenant General TY Buratai and others for national honours as reward for their decisive action against the Boko Haram terrorist group. August 26, 2018 In "News"