The Senate has directed its Committee on Customs, Excise and Tariff to investigate the recent extrajudicial killings of some residents of Idiroko/Ipokia Constituency in Ogun State by men of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The directive was given after consideration of a motion on the floor during the plenary. Coming under a point of order, sponsor of the motion, Senator Tolu Odebiyi (APC, Ogun West) said that “since the closure of the country’s land border by the Federal Government, men of the Nigeria Customs Service have been conducting themselves in a very unruly manner and in commando-like style around the Idiroko and Ipokia state constituency.” According to him, on October 7, 2019, at about 14:00 hrs, some Customs men were alleged to have shot and killed a student of Ojumo Community High School, Ihunbo in Ipokia Local Government Area, while several other students sustained injuries from gunshots. ALSO READ: DSS defers Sowore, Bakare’s release till Thursday He added that in another reported incident, men of the NCS drove recklessly with an impounded vehicle in a densely populated market which led to the killing of another student when the driver lost control. The lawmaker further lamented that an Honourable member representing the area in the State House of Assembly, Sikirat Ajibola, almost lost her life as she was shot at by men of the Nigeria Customs Service while attempting to pacify aggrieved residents following an incident which claimed the life of a student. Odeyemi said, “while many of the actions and excesses of the men of Nigeria Customs Service, including the recent killings were not only breaches, they are offences against the state; sadly, there’s yet any report of any of the men or officers involved being reprimanded or brought to book.” Vanguard News Nigeria. ABUJA- THE Senate has begun probe into the alleged extra judicial killings at the borders by operatives of Nigerian Customs Service (NCS). November 6, 2019 In "News" The Ogun Area Command Controller, Nigeria Customs Service, Sani Madugu, said smugglers now use the creeks along the border communities at Idiroko, Ipokia Local Government Area, to smuggle bags of rice and other prohibited products into the country. May 19, 2017 In "Crime Guard" ABEOKUTA—Another clash between operatives of the Nigeria Customs Service, Ogun Area Command, and suspected smugglers, this time at Ajilete village in Ipokia Local Government of the state, has reportedly led to the death of one person. October 24, 2017 In "News"