Globus Bank Limited, a new bank licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), has announced the launch of its operations in Nigeria starting today. HIV/AIDS: Nigeria pledges $12m to Global Fund(Opens in a new browser tab) The Bank aims to be the leading digital bank in the country by leveraging cutting-edge technology to deliver exceptional value to its customers. It also aims to bridge the customer experience gap in the industry by offering innovative products tailored to its customer’s needs and by offering exceptional customer service. The bank would prioritize sustainability and will be the first bank in the country to deploy green technology in its branch operations. The sound corporate governance structure is expected to ensure its cardinal principles of transparency, accountability and diligence are institutionalized throughout the bank. The bank’s Board of Directors includes industry leaders and experts with a combined experience of over 150 years in Operations, Business Strategy, Information, Technology, Executive Management and Financial Control. Elias Igbinakenzua, the MD/CEO of Globus Bank, has served as an Executive Director in both Zenith Bank and Access Bank. Nixon Iwedi, the Executive Director, has over twenty years of banking experience, including leadership roles across different core aspects of banking including Credit and Marketing, operations, corporate finance amongst others. Creative designers guild of Nigeria holds election(Opens in a new browser tab) Other members of the board include Augustine Okere, an engineer with over thirty years of experience and the founder of Computer Warehouse Group, Isioma Ezi-Ashi, a lawyer and respected entrepreneur in the construction industry with over 30 years of experience, Dr. Vincent Okeke, an engineer, fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and Pwc alumnus, Olayide Abel, a fellow of the institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, seasoned banker and  Pwc alumnus, and Engr. Charles Osezua (CON), a leader in the oil and gas industry. Driven by its visionary board and savvy business model, the Bank will set itself apart in the industry   through Innovation and deliver exceptional service to its customers. Globus Bank is headquartered at No. 6 Adeyemo Alakija Street, Victoria Island, Lagos. Vanguard The directive of the   Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) that banks should give out 65 percent of their deposits as loans (Loan to Deposit Ratio) has triggered fears of increased Non Performing Loans (NPLs), which is presently above regulatory threshold in the industry. November 7, 2019 In "Interview" The Central Bank of Nigeria has urged financial technology companies, payment service providers and Deposit Money Banks engaged in offering payment solutions to customers to ensure they adhere to policy framework and standards that guide their respective operations in the ecosystem in which they operate. September 10, 2019 In "Business" In the midst of several challenges including infrastructure deficit, cold war between banks and telcos, low awareness, agency banking is said to have the smartest key to unlock economic development. December 19, 2018 In "Technology"