Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, on Sunday, rejected the proposed death penalty clause in the Hate Speech Bill currently before the National Assembly. Okowa, who repudiated the clause during the 2019 General Harvest at the Cathedral Church of the Advent, Anglican Communion, Abuja, stressed that the whole world was moving away from capital punishment for an offence. He noted that it would not be right for the country to resort to the death penalty at this time and age. The governor said: “I condemn hate speech in totality but we shouldn’t be moving in that direction. It is not the right path, more so, when people could misjudge the intentions of whosoever is making a speech. “We may not know who will be the determinant at the end of the day and what will constitute the entirety of the hate speech. “So, you may just find innocent souls dying for nothing and these are souls created by God and not by man.” Okowa also pointed out that there was great hope in the future if, only, we could sincerely go back to God as individuals and as a nation. Preaching, the governor charged Nigerians to trust God completely and rely on his strength. Okowa, who urged Nigerians not to be scared, said that one with God was with the majority. “We must take the fear away from our lives, we must also submit totally to God and whatever the situation is, God will resolve it and answer our prayers. ”There are lessons to be learnt for this period that God has taken us through. “If we can recall those lessons and go back to God, God will definitely bless Nigeria again,” he added. (NAN)  Vanguard   Governor of Delta, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, on Sunday, kicked against the proposed death penalty in the Hate Speech Bill before the National Assembly. Okowa, who repudiated the clause during the 2019 General Harvest at the Cathedral Church of the Advent, Anglican Communion, Abuja, stressed that the whole world was moving… November 24, 2019 In "News" Ven. Ernest Onuoha, Vicar of All Saints Anglican Church, on Sunday, urged the National Assembly to remove the proposed death penalty clause included in the hate speech bill before it. Onuoha, who made the call at the 2019 General Harvest, in Abuja, at the All Saints Church, Anglican Communion, noted… November 24, 2019 In "News" ...Says States will Resolve the issue of Minimum Wage before December, Governors By Henry Umoru Governors of the thirty- six states of the country under the aegis of the Nigeria Governors' Forum, NGF have said that no governor has come out to support the death penalty proposed for Hate Speech… November 21, 2019 In "News"