Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and wife, Dolapo on Sunday in Lagos danced in  celebration of the 60th birthday of Mrs Bimbola Osinbajo, wife of the vice president’s elder brother, Femi Osinbajo. Osinbajo, who was also joined by his mother, Mrs Olubisi Osinbajo and other family members including the celebrants children, at the Thanksgiving Service, prayed for Bimbola and thanked God for granting her 60 years in good health. He prayed God to set her apart for mercy, favour, protection and to give her a reason to rejoice always. The vice president, in an interview, described Bimbola as loyal, generous and kind-hearted. “She is one on the most loyal and beautiful human beings you can come across; kind-hearted and generous. “ I think one could not have asked for a better sister; I call her my sister not a sister-in-law. She is a very supportive person at all times,’’ he said. In a word of exhortation, Pastor Seyi Malomo, Chaplain Aso Villa Chapel, said that the attainment of 60 years was worth thanking God for. He said it was a celebration of 60 years of God’s faithfulness, kindness, preservation, protection and love. On her part, the vice president’s mother prayed for God’s blessings on her daughter-in-law and presented a Holy Bible to her. The highlight of the event was the cutting of birthday cake. Bimbola, is a retired nurse; at present, she  runs an NGO, Cedar Relief Foundation. Cedar Relief Foundation works towards improving the quality of life of under privileged Nigerian women and children through its focus on two of United Nations Sustainable Development goals- good health and well being and quality Education. Vanguard Nigeria News President Muhammad Buhari and his wife Mrs Aisha joined many well-wishers in congratulating and wishing the Acting President Professor Yemi Osinbajo who turned sixty yesterday happy birthday. March 9, 2017 In "News" Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Sunday eulogised the late Chief Hannah Awolowo, saying she always stood for the unity of the nation all her life. September 20, 2015 In "News" Acting President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has said thank you to all Nigerians and well-wishers who sent in kind words and massages to him on the occasion of his sixtieth birthday. March 8, 2017 In "News"