Information and Communications Technology Company, Atawa Technologies LLC in conjunction with Atawa training Institute are organising a cybersecurity training for students in Abuja and Asaba, Delta state, to reduce the spate of cyberattacks in the areas. Chairman of Atawa group, Prof. Alex Atawa, said the training would open participants to the nitty-gritty of cybersecurity and help equip them towards reducing the cybersecurity issues in the country. The training which is on ICT Fundamentals+, Cyber Security, and Cloud computing essentials, would only accommodate 50 participants. Atawa said the training would kick-off  November 25th, at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, and the second phase of the training would take place two days after in Asaba, Delta State. He urged all stakeholders, including Students, Businessmen and Women, in different fields to register and attend the event. The training, according to him will also be beneficial to, industrialists, CEOs,   ICT Personnels, public and Civil Servants, Computer Scientists, among others who he urged to register and participate in the training. He said the training will benefit participants far more than how much it costs them to register for it. Atawa who is also a university don, said part of the benefit of the training, includes sponsorship of at least 20 persons to further their studies in America. Vanguard A US-based Nigerian  ICT expert, Dr. Alex Atawa-Akpodiete, will arrive the country this weekend to deliver a paper at Project Management Institute, PMI, Nigeria. October 26, 2018 In "News" The United States Consulate General Lagos, in collaboration with RoboRAVE International, a U.S.-based robotics education academy, trained 187 Nigerian students on robotics. October 27, 2018 In "News" With the overall cost of cyber-attacks pegged globally at $400 billion in 2015 and with the growing frequency and intensity of threats, the need to pro-actively address cybersecurity threats has become critically important. July 27, 2016 In "Technology"