Investigators in Germany on Thursday offered a half-a-million-euro reward for information about the spectacular heist in which robbers snatched priceless diamonds from a state museum in Dresden. Police said the reward ($550,000) was being offered to anyone providing information “which could lead… to the capture of the perpetrators or the recovery of the stolen items”. Police across eastern Germany are continuing their search for the thieves who launched a brazen raid on the Green Vault museum in Dresden’s Royal Palace on Monday. Having initiated a partial power cut and broken in through a window, the thieves stole priceless 18th-century jewellery from the collection of the Saxon ruler August the Strong. They stole objects encrusted with hundreds of diamonds, including the famous 49-carat Dresden white, the museum said on Wednesday. Police are hunting four suspects in the theft and have released dramatic CCTV footage which showed one of them breaking into a display case with an axe. Aside from a burnt-out car that they identified as the initial escape vehicle, investigators are yet to find a significant trace of the thieves. Dresden police said they were also in contact with colleagues in Berlin to explore possible connections to a similar heist in the capital two years ago. In 2017, a 100-kilogramme (220-pound), 24-karat giant gold coin was stolen from Berlin’s Bode Museum. Four men with links to a notorious Berlin gang were later arrested and put on trial. On Thursday, police said the Dresden investigations were now being led by the state prosecutor’s department for organised crime. The special commission set up to investigate the theft has also doubled in size to involve a staff of 40. “We will leave no stone unturned to solve this case,” said regional police president Horst Kretzschmar. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Thieves carried out a heist Monday at Dresden’s Green Vault, one of the world’s oldest museum, making off with three “priceless” sets of jewellery from the 18th century that German officials said would be impossible to sell on the open market. Police said they were alerted shortly before 5 a.m.… November 25, 2019 In "Foreign" Diamond thieves stole three ‘priceless’ sets of 18th-century jewellery from a German museum in an early-morning raid. November 25, 2019 In "News" Thieves grabbed jewels and other treasures worth up to a billion euros from an eastern German museum in the early hours of Monday, Bild newspaper reported. The intruders cut the electricity supply in Dresden’s Gruenes Gewoelbe, or Green Vault museum, which houses one of Europe’s largest collections of jewelry and… November 25, 2019 In "News"