It is global international break which sees Nigeria play Lesotho on Sunday – yet fans in Nigeria will enjoy double offerings as the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) fixtures still hold on the weekend. FC Ifeanyi Ubah versus Rivers United at the Nnewi stadium is one match to keep an eye on this weekend, as it promises to be interesting. The Anambra Warriors are fresh off a 1-0 win over Adamawa United and a morale-boosting 1-1 draw away to MFM  in which the Olukoya Boys fought back from an early goal deficit to pick a point. That’s a sign of how impressive FC Ifeanyiubah have been of late, which makes them “slight” favourites going into the game. The Pride of Rivers introduced a key driver in their last match when Bright Onyedikachi came off the bench to change the game against Heartland. Coach Stanley Eguma will be banking on this encounter to turn their fortunes around as they are yet to register a win this season. Despite their winless run, Eguma’s team are expected to go out full throttle against the hosts. Bright Onyedikachi (Rivers United): The dazzler was a handful against Heartland last weekend. The petite forward will likely start against his former side, giving him a full match in which to work his magic up front. Christian Nnaji (FC Ifeanyiubah): You suspect the performance of Christian Nnaji will be key to an FC Ifeanyiubah victory, after he registered his first goal of the season against MFM in Agege. He must be at his clinical best and take his chances if Uche Okagbue’s men are to win the game. FC Ifeanyiubah are sixth on the NPFL log with four points after their first two matches, while Rivers United are eighth with two points from two games. FC Ifeanyiubah have scored in their last five home matches in the League, while Rivers United are yet to score in four consecutive league games away from home. Source: npfl.ng Vanguard News Following the end of 2015/2016 season of the Nigerian Professional Football League, yesterday, President, FC Ifeanyi Ubah, has thanked the fans for their commitment all through the season, even as he hailed the team for finishing 4th on the log barely two years of its existence. October 3, 2016 In "News" By Temisan Amoye, Lagos The Nigerian Professional Football League, NPFL returned for the opening weekend of the 2019/2020 NPFL season. Two games, Enyimba vs Nasarawa United and Rangers vs Sunshine Stars were postponed due to Enyimba and Rangers’ CAF Confederation Cup games on Sunday. With the two Nigerian teams going… November 4, 2019 In "Sports" Fast rising Nigerian Professional Football League, NPFL side and first African partner of West Ham United FC of England, FC Ifeanyi Ubah will this week host their London-based partners, West Ham United FC in Lagos and Nnewi in a bid to take the partnership between both football clubs to the… October 4, 2016 In "News"