The Board of Directors of Forte Oil Plc has concluded arrangement to change its corporate name to Ardova Plc. The company made this disclosure in a notification sent to the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), where it announced its forthcoming Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM), scheduled to hold on Tuesday, December 17, 2019. The resolution to be considered at the EGM, according to the notice includes that : “The Directors of the company be empowered to draw up, sign documents and appoint advisers regarding the matter where necessary. They were also expected to comply with the directives of regulatory authorities to make the name change possible. The Shareholders hereby approve that the name of the Company be changed from Forte Oil Plc to Ardova Plc. “The Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorized to approve, sign and/or execute all documents, appoint such professional parties and advisers, as may be necessary to give effect to the above resolutions, including without limitation, complying with the directives of any regulatory authority and all acts carried out, steps taken and documents executed (or to be executed) by the Directors of the Company in connection with the above resolutions be and are hereby approved.” In addition, the shareholders intend to close the Register of Members and transfer of Books of the Company from 6th December 2019 to 15th December 2019 for the purpose of attending the meeting. Vanguard THE Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, yesterday, announced the dissolution of the Board of Directors of Ikeja Hotels Plc due to unresolved internal crisis involving the major shareholders. The Commission also appointed an Interim Board led by Chief Anthony Idigbe (SAN) to oversee the conduct of forensic investigation into the… May 5, 2017 In "Business" Shareholders of African Petroleum (AP) Plc have approved the proposal by its Board of Directors to change the company’s name to Forte Oil Plc. December 30, 2010 In "Business" Forte Oil Plc has concluded plans to divest its upstream services, power- generating businesses in Nigeria and downstream business in Ghana. May 29, 2018 In "News"