Not less than seventeen cows were struck to death by thunderstorm in Iba, a town in Ifelodun Local Government Council Area of Osun State. It was gathered that some fulani herdsmen in the community had reared the the cows to a farm land around Apala area of the town when the natural phenomenon struck. Findings showed that all the cows reared by the herdsmen were affected by the thunder. However in swift reaction to avoid suspicion, the monarch of the town, Oba Adekunle Oyedeji said he, with the cooperation of the fulani community in the town are on top of the situation, urging owners to burn the cows to avoid epidemic. He urged calm among indigenes and residents of the town. A statement signed by Prince Gbolagunte Bamigbola said the fulani community had been living harmoniously with other people in the town. It reads, “The people of Iba, have over the years been living harmoniously with Fulani natives living in our domain. The death of the cows belonging to the Fulani cattle rearers living among us was a natural occurrence ocassioned by a thunder that struck in the town. The cows were killed by thunder at Apala farm in the territory of Iba, headquarters of Ifelodun Area Office and the community with the collaboration of the leadership of the fulani community are on top of the situation. The Eburu in Council has directed the owners of the cows to burn them to avoid epidemic in the town. The community is in peace and the people live peacefully with all non indigenes including the Fulanis”. Vanguard News No fewer than 19 cows were killed by lightening at Iba in Ifelodun Local Lightening kills 19 cows in Osun, as Gov. Oyetola sympathizes with Fulani trader. It was gathered on Saturday that some Fulani herdsmen were rearing their cattle on the field around Apala area of the town when… November 23, 2019 In "News" WITHOUT any premonition that he was shepherding his 36 cows to be killed on a sacred hill, a herder identified as Ladam left Ilorin, Kwara state for down south in high spirit and arrived safely in Ijare, lfedore council area of Ondo state barely two weeks ago. September 28, 2019 In "News" ABA- Following what he described as incessant clashes between Fulani herdsmen and farmers in communities in Obingwa Local Government Area of Abia State, the Divisional Police Officer, DPO, for Eastern Ngwa Police Division, Superintendent Saleh Musa, last week summoned a town hall meeting with a view to finding solutions to… October 26, 2016 In "News"