THE Nigerian Air Force has promoted 99 senior officers to the next higher ranks. The promotion followed approval to that effect by the Air Force Council,according to a statement early Sunday morning, by the Director of Public Relations and Information,Nigerian Air Force,Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola. The Nigeria Air Force promotion saw the elevation of 13 Air Commodores to the higher rank of Air Vice Marshal,35 Group Captains (Gp Capts) promoted to the rank of Air Commodore and 51 Wing Commanders (Wg Cdrs) promoted to the rank of Group Captain. The full statement read thus:”The Air Force Council (AFC) yesterday, 9 November 2019, approved the promotion of a total of 99 senior officers to the next higher ranks in the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). The affected senior officers comprise 13 Air Commodores (Air Cdres) who were promoted to the rank of Air Vice Marshal (AVM), 35 Group Captains (Gp Capts) who were promoted to the rank of Air Cdre and 51 Wing Commanders (Wg Cdrs) promoted to the rank of Gp Capt. “Those promoted to the rank of AVM include, Air Cdres Ayoola Jolasinmi, Hassan Abubakar, Jackson Yusuf, Austine Imafidor, Pius Oahimire, Dalhat Ladan, Cosmas Ozougwu, Isah Muhammad, Sunday Makinde, Abubakar Yusuf, Abubakar Adamu, Ado Inuwa and Ademola Durotoye. Among those promoted from the rank of Gp Capt to Air Cdre are Ahmed Idris, Olasunkanmi Abidoye, Olusola Akinboyewa, Isaac Subi, Japhet Ekwuribe, Solomon Lazarus, Ahmed Dari, Emeka Ashiegbu and Abdullahi Bello. “Others promoted to the rank of Air Cdre include, Yuhana Katabiya, Gambo Adamu, Alheri Dakwat, Olayinka Oyesola, Adedoyin Oyenusi, Edward Gapkwet, Friday Ekpah, Luther Kamat, Joktan Chidama, Felix Uwakara, Mikail Abdulraheem and Ernest Owai. Gp Capts Glenn Nkanang, Chidiebere Obiabaka, Raphael Ojo, Mohammed Isah, Ibitoye Ajiboye, Shani Bukar, Wapkerem Maigida, Atang Sambo, Daniel Akpan, Olanrewaju Oyename, Boniface Ifeobu, Godwin Udoh, Ayodele Hanidu and Azubuike Chukwuka were also promoted to the rank of Air Cdre. “The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on behalf of officers, airmen, airwomen and civilian staff of the NAF, heartily congratulates the newly promoted senior officers and urges them to see the elevation as motivation to re-dedicate themselves towards more effective and efficient service delivery. The newly promoted senior officers will be decorated with their new ranks at a later date.” Vanguard Authorities of the Nigerian Air Force said on Wednesday that the Air Force Council (AFC) on Tuesday, 4 December 2018, approved the promotion of a total of 64 senior officers to the next higher ranks in the Nigerian Air Force. December 5, 2018 In "News" The Air Force Council has approved the promotion of 78 senior officers to the next higher ranks in the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). The promotions comprise 14 Air Vice Marshals, 19 Air Commodores and 45 Group Captains. December 9, 2016 In "News" ABUJA—The Nigerian Air Force has elevated 110 officers to the next ranks. These include 16 Air Vice Marshals and 35 Air Commodores. November 24, 2014 In "News"