Former Bolivian President, Evo Morales, has arrived in Mexico City, saying he asked for asylum because his life was in danger. Mr. Morales resigned on Sunday after weeks of protests over a disputed presidential election result. The Mexican jet carrying him landed at an airport in Mexico City, where he gave a brief news conference. Mr. Morales said he was forced to stand down but did so willingly “so there would be no more bloodshed.” The left-wing leader said he and the Bolivian government were “very grateful” to Mexican President, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, whom he credited with saving his life. “While I have the life I’ll stay in politics, the fight continues. All the people of the world have the right to free themselves from discrimination and humiliation,” he added. Mexican Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, said Mr. Morales had arrived “safely” in the country, tweeting a picture of the jet that carried him. (BBC)  Vanguard Former Bolivian president, Evo Morales, has accepted an offer of political asylum in Mexico a day after leaving office amid election fraud protests. In a tweet, he said it hurts to be leaving Bolivia but he would return with more "strength and energy.” Mexico's Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, confirmed Mr.… November 12, 2019 In "News" Bolivia’s former president, Evo Morales, was flying to Mexico on Tuesday after fleeing his South American homeland, seeking refuge under a leftist government that has supported the veteran socialist in the wake of a disputed election. Bolivia’s first indigenous president came under Mexico’s protection after he departed Bolivia late on… November 12, 2019 In "Foreign" Mexico’s government views the resignation of Bolivia’s president as a coup because the Bolivian military had broken with the constitution by pressing him to stand down, Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said on Monday. “It’s a coup because the army requested the resignation of the president, and that violates the… November 11, 2019 In "Foreign"