First Bank of Nigeria has reiterated its commitment to continue to empower women across the nation. Giving the assurance, the CEO, First Bank, Dr Adesola Adeduntan, disclosed at the third anniversary of FirstGem, that a women-centric account has been designed specifically to meet the financial needs of both corporate and entrepreneurial women. According to her, the bank understands the needs of women and their invaluable contributions to the growth of the economy and hence its resolve to provide support to them. “Having identified the gaps in their lives, both in corporate Nigeria and in the entrepreneurial space, we are committed to bridging those gaps effectively by providing the tools required for women’s empowerment,” Adedutan said. “With FirstGem, our long-term focus is on national economic development. I believe that with the indices we have so far, FirstGem is on the right performance track. “FirstGem promotes the savings culture, financial literacy, loan management, wealth creation and healthy lifestyle for women. It has a wide array of advisory, health and current awareness services for the discerning woman.” He said the bank has organised and participated in several women empowerment programmes and international conferences through FirstGem where women were availed various opportunities in trade and commerce, savings and investments, food and agriculture, fashion, tourism, education and lots of other economic empowerment initiatives. This product, apart from being an account dedicated solely to women, is lifestyle-enhancing. It provides a total lifestyle support for discerning women to enable them meet their economic needs and aspirations, he added. Vanguard WOMEN, today, are accepted as pillars of the smallest economic unit, the family. From them, great people, both male and female, have been birthed. This shows that women are forces to be reckoned with in terms of nation-building and economic development. However, the special qualities possessed by women have been… March 18, 2019 In "Business" The Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, on Friday said that 30 per cent of the country’s demand for foreign exchange was for fuel importation. October 28, 2016 In "News" FIRST BANK has marked the second anniversary of  its  FirstGem, a lifestyle product designed specifically for women to promote female independence and entrepreneurship. November 26, 2018 In "News"