New Tottenham coach. Jose Mourinho in an expression of his delight at the win against Olympiacos in the Champions League invited his favourite ball-boy into Tottenham’s inner sanctum on Saturday as a reward for his quick reactions during the match. Callum Hynes met Kane and the Spurs squad and joined them for their pre-match meal at the stadium as they prepared to take on Bournemouth in the Premier League before taking up his usual place on the touchline. The 15-year-old, a long-serving ball-boy at White Hart Lane, earned his place in Mourinho’s affections when he threw a ball quickly for Serge Aurier to launch the attack which led to an equaliser as they fought back from two down to beat Olympiacos 4-2. Victory against the Greeks secured a place in the last 16 of the Champions League for Spurs and ensured the new boss sent the fans home happy after his first home game in charge. “Happy days for the kid and hopefully we gave him amazing memories for the rest of his life, so beautiful for him,” MourinhoDailyMail Sport. He also hinted was now considering inviting one of the ball-boys into the pre-match meal ahead of every home game. The positive mood in the Tottenham camp appeared to transfer to the pitch on Saturday afternoon as they took an early lead against Bournemouth. Dele Ali scored after 21 minutes before Davinson Sanchez’s strike minutes later was disallowed for handball following a VAR review. Vanguard News Nigeria. Tottenham battled back from 2-0 down to secure a 4-2 win over Olympiacos and book their place in the knockout phase of the Champions League, with Serge Aurier and Harry Kane seeing them over the line in the final 17 minutes. Jose Mourinho's first European game and first home match… November 26, 2019 In "Sports" Dele Alli scored twice as Tottenham claimed a 3-2 Premier League victory over Bournemouth to maintain their winning start under new head coach Jose Mourinho. Tottenham beat West Ham and Olympiacos in Mourinho's first two matches and were good value for their latest triumph at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium on Saturday,… November 30, 2019 In "Sports" Premier League: The spotlight is on Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho to deliver a positive response to a week of negative publicity when faced on Monday with an opposite number who has adopted a very different attitude to similar off-field frustrations. August 26, 2018 In "Sports"