International superstar and Grammy award-winning rapper, Cardi B, will be visiting Africa for the first time this December. The self-proclaimed Queen of the Bronx is expected to make her first visit to West Africa this December at the Livespot X Festival. Her first stop will be in Lagos on December 7, before heading to Accra on the 8th. Livespot berths, to change Nigeria’s marcom standard(Opens in a new browser tab) Since her break-out single, Bodak Yellow, Cardi B has become one of the leading women in Hip-Hop. Her burgeoning reputation was further cemented with a Grammy Award win earlier this year. Her vibrant personality and social commentary have made her one of the most influential entertainers in the world. Cardi B has, over the last few years, become a social media phenomenon, and her latest Halloween antics rocked the dailies when her choice of costumes grabbed headlines worldwide. Cardi’s trip to Lagos and Ghana is a clear indication of her ambitions to conquer the world and cement her status as a bonafide global star. Ex-Miss Ivory Coast, Sery Dorcas moves on from divorce, finds love again(Opens in a new browser tab) The show in Lagos, which will hold at the Eko Atlantic City, Victoria Island on December 7, 2019, will see the vivacious rapper joined on stage by some of Nigeria’s biggest artistes. Vanguard Multiple award-winning American rapper, Cardi B performed for the first time in Africa at the Livespot X Festival held at the Eko Atlantic City, Lagos on Saturday, December 7, 2019. During the electrifying performance which featured some of her hit tracks such as Bodak Yellow, Bartier Cardi, I Like It… December 8, 2019 In "Entertainment" Grammy Award-winning rapper, Cardi B has had a great time in Lagos over the past few days and to crown it up, the social media sensation ended the trip with a night out with Nigerian superstars, Burna Boy, Zlatan, Tiwa Savage And Darey Art-Alade. READ ALSO: Cardi B wears Nigerian inspired… December 8, 2019 In "Entertainment" Grammy Award winning rapper, Cardi B yesterday visited the Lions Village motherless babies home in Lagos. Sharing a few pictures from her visit, the 27 year old mother in her post thanked the staff at the home for the care given to the kids saying, “Gotta thank the ladies and… December 8, 2019 In "Entertainment"