Hollywood actor Dennis Quaid doesn’t mind the 39-year age gap between him and his new fiancée, Laura Savoie, 26. “I didn’t go out looking for an age gap or someone really younger than me,” he recently told The Guardian. “I met her at a business event and then the relationship developed. You have no control over who you fall in love with. I don’t fall in love easy. But I can’t let what a few people think to control all that. I’ve been married three times and this is the final one, I know it is. I feel like I have a real partner in life.” Quaid’s recent engagement to the PhD student made headlines and inspired memes in October with critics calling out the “Parent Trap” star for dating someone young enough to be his daughter. In fact, his new gal is a year younger than his own son, 27-year-old Jack Quaid. But the couple doesn’t let the haters get to them. “It really doesn’t bother us. Everyone comes from the perspective of their own life and so I can’t comment on the way they feel; I can’t even get angry,” he said. And of the Meredith Blake memes, he added, “That was really a laugh. I thought it was wonderful, actually.” The Hollywood heartthrob also revealed where the two may tie the knot. “We went to the Staglin Family Vineyard, where we filmed ‘The Parent Trap,’” he said. “I hadn’t been there since 1996. So we went and they offered us the opportunity to get married there.” When asked if they plan to go ahead with the venue, he said, “Well, wouldn’t you? For sure!” And on when the nuptials will take place, he said, “I think you have to get married within a year of asking.” He previously dated model Santa Auzins after his 16-year marriage to Kimberly Buffington ended in 2018. He was also married to Meg Ryan from 1991 to 2001 and P.J. Soles from 1978 to 1983. Savoie, a student at the University of Texas, previously dated Jeremy Piven. Source: Pagesix Vanguard News Dennis Akagha is the first Nigerian to have opened up after surviving the dreaded Ebola virus in Nigeria. October 3, 2015 In "Human Angle" Abuja, Oct. 19, 2018 Age differences between couples had been a subject of debate  among Nigerians while some lauded it others described it as a violation of cultural norms. October 19, 2018 In "News" My husband had a stroke a very long time ago and we have not had sex for nine years. We’re both in our early 50s and he doesn’t think I should. Settle for a sexless life; we don’t want to split because we still ‘love each other and our children… October 13, 2010 In "News"