Lizzy Evoeme popularly known as Ovuleria has requested to be interviewed by a television station  to enable her to show her face and tell the world that she’s still alive and kicking. Ovuleria, as she’s fondly following her role as the submissive wife of  Chief Zebrudaya Okoroigwe Nwogbo alias 4.30 of the now rested sitcom, The New Masquerade that aired on the Nigerian Television Network,NTA, in the 80s  and mid-90s made this request when WG, contacted her yesterday on the phone. Recall that news went viral on social media on Wednesday, claiming that the thespian is dead. Her screen husband,  Chief Zebrudaya Okoroigwe Nwogbo later came out to debunk the fake news. However, when WG contacted ageing Ovuleria yesterday, the thespian declined to grant interview to any newspaper. Instead, she prefers to have an live interview on television, where her face can be shown on screen for the world to see her. “All I want now is  somebody that can interview me live on television so that I can tell the world I am still alive. I have refused to comment on the rumour since(Wednesday) yesterday, because many people have been calling on the telephone. I don’t want to grant interview to any newspaper because when you say one thing, they will report another thing,” Ovuleria said. Vanguard By Benjamin Njoku Chika Okpala, popularly known as Chief Zebrudaya Okoroigwe Nwogbo alias 4.30 of the now rested sitcom that aired on the Nigerian Television Network, NTA, in the 80s and mid-90s, has dismissed reports circulating on social media that Ovuleria Uredia who played his submissive wife in that sitcom… November 6, 2019 In "News" Veteran actor, Chief Chika Okpala popularly known as “Zebrudaya,’’ says lack of sponsorship have hindered production of most television series in the country. January 18, 2018 In "Home Video People" Another person was chosen for the role of Natty since I had assumed the role of Chief Zebrudaya. So many people had played the role of Natty before Romamus Amuta, the Natty you know came to play it July 10, 2010 In "Home Video People"