Bayelsa  State chapter of the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) has returned unopposed the Akpos Ekiegha led state executives to run its affairs for the next four years. The election was conducted Tuesday at the union’s 6th quadrennial delegates’ conference, held at Golden Tulip Hotel, Yenagoa. Comrade Chukwuemeka Aguonye, Acting General Secretary of NULGE, who presided over the delegate election called for a motion for the dissolution of the outgoing executives which was moved by Comrade Princewill Akpoebi of Ekeremor RDA and was seconded by Comrade Marcus Okolo from Ogbia RDA. He said the delegate election was in line with rule 7 of the NULGE Electoral Regulations hence all the elected executives remained validly nominated for their various elected positions. Aguonye commended members of the union for their peaceful disposition during the election and urged the newly elected executives to always work for the interest of their members. In his acceptance speech, Comrade Akpos Ekiegha, the state President of NULGE, thanked members for giving them another mandate of four years and promised not to betray the confidence reposed in them. While highlighting some of his administration achievements, Comrade Ekiegha said they had made significant intervention in the primary school teachers’ wage bill and the new N30,000 minimum wage bill implementation in the eight local government councils. He, however, appealed to the state government to intervene and attend to the outstanding salary arrears of staff of the 8 LGA councils ranging from two and half months and provide office accommodation for the G32 workers. Earlier in their opening remarks, Chief Kia Nigeria, Chairman Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, who is also the ALGON Chairman and Comrade John Ndiomu, the state Chairman of NLC, urged the newly elected executives to consolidate on their past achievements for the benefit of their members. The Bayelsa State NULGE 6th Quadrennial Delegates Conference in which 77 delegates voted had national officers from Abuja, Ebonyi, Akwa Ibom, Edo and Cross Rivers States in attendance. Highpoints of the event was the presentation of certificate of returns to all the elected Bayelsa State Executives of NULGE by the Acting National Secretary. The other state officers returned unopposed include, Comrade Gowon Toruyouwei, Deputy State President; Peace Chukwu, State Secretary;  Egba Victor, State Welfare; Owebize Ebiere, State Treasurer; Obiene Eeman, State Auditor;  Igali Ayibaprere, Publicity Secretary; Ionia Osain, chairperson woman committee, Ogalah Johnbull, State Auditor; Bams Ominigbo,  State Trustee and Etifa College, State Trustee. Vanguard News By Samuel Oyadongha Bayelsa State chapter of the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) has elected and returned unopposed the Akpos Ekiegha led state executives to run its affairs for the next four years. The election was conducted Tuesday at the union's 6th quadrennial delegates' conference, held at Golden… November 5, 2019 In "News" Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees,  NULGE, Thursday,  called on President Muhammadu Buhari to carry out forensic audit on State-Local Government Joint Account in the last 10 years. July 5, 2018 In "News" The Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, NULGE, has suspended six members of Akwa Ibom State chapter of the union for alleged anti-union activities. May 2, 2017 In "News"