The Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) says it will adopt the accountability and transparency policies of President Muhammadu Buhari to block leakages in the association. Alhaji Abdullahi Mohammed, the North-East Zonal Chairman of the RTEAN said this at end of Zonal Executive Council meeting in Bauchi on Tuesday. Mohammed, represented by the Deputy National President, Planning and logistics, Mohammed Bishara, said henceforth the association would ensure that its leadership would adopt the policies. “We have seen a large scale of fraud and diversion of funds into a personal account, collection of monies from state chairmen on the pretext of buying buses for the state. “No state branch has benefitted from any entitlements of the association, pensions and two years salaries for those that worked above 20 years,” he alleged. The zonal chairman said these were the circumstances in the North East that led to the emergency executive meeting to resolve how to move the association forward. “We are, therefore, calling on the Economic Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practice and other related Commission to investigate National headquarters of RTEAN 2009 to date,”. He reaffirmed the unflinching support to the current officials of the association due to their adherence to the Constitution of the Association in addition to dedication and commitment to service. Mohammed however, called on members in the zone to be law-abiding pending the outcome of the National Industrial Court ruling over the leadership crisis. Vanguard The Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN), Lagos State chapter, on Monday, said that it was willing and ready to accommodate and reconcile aggrieved members. October 14, 2019 In "News" The leadership crisis rocking the Road Transport Employers’ Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) has taken a new dimension, with the expulsion of the National President, Mr Osakpanwan Eriyo, by the National Executive Council (NEC). The RTEAN NEC, which took the decision at an emergency meeting in Lagos on Tuesday, also announced… September 18, 2019 In "Business" Transport Unions in Lagos State on Monday urged President Muhammadu Buhari to prioritise the completion of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway rehabilitation project, following the passage of the 2016 Budget by the National Assembly. April 4, 2016 In "News"