Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State has called on the 20 newly appointed commissioners to be honest, sincere and shun all corrupt practices as the present administration has zero-tolerance for corruption. Ganduje, who made the call on Tuesday shortly after swearing in the commissioners, called on the new commissioners to be focused and initiate policies and programmes that would move the state forward. “I want to use this opportunity to congratulate you on the new appointment but you are required to measure up to expectation and do all you can do to move Kano state to the next level,” he said, The governor further charged the new commissioners to work with their permanent secretaries and directors to ensure effective service delivery, adding that they should ensure that the budget was implemented to the latter. The governor, who said their appointments were based on their track record of service, urged them to contribute their quota towards the development of the state. NAN recalled that on Tuesday, the state House of Assembly had screened and approved the commissioner-nominees out of which eight of the 20 were his immediate past commissioners. Among the nominees that served in the last administration and retained their positions were the former Commissioner for Information, Mr Muhammed Garba, and that of Local Government Affairs, Alhaji Murtala Sule-Garu. Others include Ibrahim Mukhtar, Musa Iliyasu-Kwankwaso, Kabiru Ibrahim-Getso, Shehu Na’Allah-Kura, Mukhtar Ishak-Yakasai and Muhammed Tahir-Adam. The new commissioners were Ma’azu Magaji, who is now the commissioner of Works and Infrastructure, Nura Muhammad-Dankade for Budget and Planning, Zahra’u Umar-Muhammad, Women Affairs, Aminu Ibrahim-Tsanyawa, Sadiq Aminu-Wali, Muhammad Baffa-Takai and Kabiru Ado-Lakwaya. The remaining were Mariya Mahmoud-Bunkure, Ibrahim Ahmad-Karaye, Mahmoud Muhammad-Dansantsi, Muhammad Sanusi-Sa’id and Lawan Abdullahi-Musa. Vanguard News Nigeria. Kano State, the stronghold of the ruling party at the federal level, All Progressives Congress, APC, and where Governor  Abdullahi Ganduje has  promised  to give President Muhammadu Buhari five million votes in the 2019  general elections,  is enmeshed  in  a  row between the publisher of an online news medium, Daily… November 4, 2018 In "Politics" ds and the Emir alongside other members of the Native Authority were made to testify before the commission with D.J.M Muffet as sole commissioner. May 18, 2019 In "News" In defiance of the Friday order of a High Court restraining him from installing four new emirs, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, yesterday said the new emirates have come to stay. In essence, Ganduje said the creation of the new emirates was irreversible. May 12, 2019 In "Headlines"