Beautiful Enugu-based Nollywood actress famous for her raunchy roles in the movies ‘Room 202’ and ‘Kingdom of Pleasure’ has confessed that she prays to God to bless her with a hardworking man as a husband. The beautiful actress and Chief Executive Officer of Labell Beauty World in Enugu spilled the beans in a post to celebrate the anniversary of her cosmetics shop, which she said has been running without help from any man or woman. She wrote, “Thank you lord even without a single support from anybody, I kept the hustling going everyday it not easy to run a cosmetic business alone but God you are there for me. Sometimes I go down crying because I see something to add in my business but no helper no supporter but I know one day when the time is right God will do his wonders and no man or woman can stop it. I will be greater than this in life is just matter of time. I am a strong woman. I pray to God to give me a hard working man that knows my worth and invest in me. Happy anniversary to labellBeautyworld . I am so proud of my lovely myself️. Thank you lord. Christabel Egbenya has featured in over 60 films and still counting. Vanguard Beautiful and sexy Edo-State born Nollywood actress, Christabel Egbenya, has done so many films since she came into the movie industry. She has talent and she has brought it on in many of her films but like every actor, there are some roles that still haunt or define their careers.… November 14, 2015 In "Entertainment" By Ayo Onikoyi Sexy and stylish Edo State-born Nollywood actress, Christabel Egbenya, has added a new trade to her make-believe one as she launched her beauty parlour, named 'La Bell Beauty World' in Enugu yesterday. The opening ceremony which was a glitzy affair had some of her colleagues in attendance.… November 12, 2016 In "Entertainment" Stunning Nollywood beauty and Chief Executive Officer of Labell Beauty World,  Enugu, Christabel Egbenya, like every woman has marriage on her mind but   that hasn’t turned her into a pushover that will accept anything thrown at her. September 23, 2017 In "Showtime People"