Days after releasing his latest musical video, Sili-kon, Bayelsa born artist and self-styled ‘Egberi Papa One of Bayelsa’, Timaya has started receiving feedbacks on the acceptability of the video. The feed backs have been positive in some spheres and negative in others. Timaya is one of the most successful artists in Nigeria; however his subject matter of singing about women body part has drawn controversy from critics who deem his approach and method as degrading, objectifying women. Timaya must love the controversies and attentions because he has not stopped with his concept of singing all he can about these women. His new song “Sili-kon” is a slang for silicone surgery and the content focuses on how women are mostly “plastic” now, owing to the numerous cosmetic surgeries that they have done to enhance their appearance. “This is preposterous……Why is he encouraging fake things?” a lady who goes by the username, scottchris, wondered on a popular social media page.  Another user who goes by the username johnnychuks2, however sees nothing wrong with the song. This is what he posted “Abegi shut up, wetin una no go critisize, nice one from timaya, carry go, forward ever?”  Different strokes for different folks, you may want to say. Sili-kon was produced by celebrated music producer, Kel P and was released just some days back. Vanguard Afro-dancehall artiste, Inetimi Timaya Odon,  better known as Timaya,has spoken about his addiction to voluptuous women. November 8, 2019 In "Entertainment" Former British and Commonwealth boxing champion, Peter Oboh has prevailed on popular ghetto singer, Nico Gravity, to make peace with dancehall singer, Timaya, by featuring him in any of his upcoming album. August 3, 2018 In "Entertainment" Longstanding beef between two Nigerian pop stars, Paul Nnamdi Okpara a.k.a Nico Gravity and Timaya  may soon be over, as the former has finally reached out to the latter, asking him to let go of the past, as he’s ready to do a collabo with him to end their feud. August 16, 2018 In "Music"