The Commissioner/Managing Director, Japan External Trade Organisation, JETO, Shigeyo Nishizawa, has advised that Nigerian private and public sectors need to collaborate to develop its vast local market and grow the economy. He also said that Nigerian private companies need international collaboration to accelerate growth in the domestic economy, adding, however, that Nigerian government has to look into some aspects of the economy that need improvement and act immediately. Typhoon Hagibis kills many as it batters Japan, troops deployed(Opens in a new browser tab) Nishizawa said this at the ongoing Lagos International Trade Fair, where Japan is participating for the sixth time. Continuing, he stated: “This year, we have 37 Japan companies showcasing products and services, the highest so far at the Lagos International Trade Fair because we want to contribute more to Nigerian economic growth, create a lasting trade relation. I want Japanese companies to try Nigerian market because of its vast nature and increasing population. Private companies in Nigeria have sufficient buying-power to collaborate with Japanese firms in improving the Nigerian market. Japan wants deeper trade investment with Africa’s biggest market and has asked the private sector in both countries to exploit opportunities inherent in their relationship”. At the ongoing event where Japan is participating for the sixth time, Japanese agents and local distributors are exhibiting brands like Honda, Yamaha, Mitsubishi, Toyota, Isuzu and Suzuki, Canon, Sharp and Brother Plascon Paint and Alteco adhesive. Big names in the food and beverages industry like Briscoe Nigeria Plc, Olam Sanyo Foods, Tomoe engineering, and Ajinomoto are also showcasing the quality and reliability of Japanese products. The Japanese pavilion features financial services firms like Double Feather Partners, and IT companies with innovative products like SNRI, a sales automation system that helps businesses achieve greater sales productivity by monitoring field staff, generating reports from the field, streamlining order process, route management, payment management and customer management. In addition, Managing Director/CEO, Green Diamonds Ltd., Anthony Okpara said that the products offered at the trade fair have good reception and Nigerians are developing new applications. “The UMA curry mix seasoning, a curry paste of Japanese origin is already in many Nigerian kitchens. IWD: Ajayi urges women to seize opportunities in Buhari’s 2nd term(Opens in a new browser tab) The trade relations between the Nigeria and Japan is also making a social impact with the introduction of SATO which helps to make Nigeria open defecation free through its affordable, smart, plastic toilets that can be mounted over pit latrines to create more hygienic toilets. There is also “Made in Japan, made for women” corner exhibiting products and services that help women access more fashionable and convenient items including cosmetics and hair wigs. The fair offers Nigerians the opportunity to purchase authentic hair products like X-pression, made from raw materials supplied by Toyokalon, at affordable rates. Vanguard With the Lagos International Trade Fair getting set for another edition next month, regular participant Japan seeks  massive investment opportunities in Nigeria even as Japan External Trade Organisation (JETRO) announced in Lagos the readiness of 37 Japanese companies to participate in the trade fair. October 26, 2019 In "Business" Counting on the dividends of previous participation in Lagos International Trade Fair, Japan through its external trade organisation, JETRO in Nigeria, seeks mammoth opportunities to invest in Nigeria, considering the country as the biggest market in Africa, even as its 30 brands line up for exhibition at the forthcoming the… October 26, 2018 In "Business" The trade relation between Nigeria and Japan is taking a good dimension, as Japan showcases more than 30 brands in the ongoing international trade fair, Lagos, even as it renews interest to invest in Nigeria to support the economy of the country. November 9, 2018 In "News"