A Pakistan’s court on Monday ordered the release on bail of the daughter and political successor of ailing former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif from jail in which she had been detained on corruption charges. “Maryam Nawaz’s bail plea was accepted by the Lahore High Court,” party spokesman Attaullah Tarar, told reporters in the eastern city of Lahore. The court accepted her bail plea but barred her from leaving the country. She applied for bail days after her ill father’s seven-year sentence for graft was suspended so that he could be moved from jail to hospital, where he is fighting for his life, according to his doctor. Pakistan’s anti-graft body arrested Maryam in August over fresh allegations of corruption and money-laundering at a time when she was at the forefront of opposition politics. Her party claimed she was arrested for leading huge public rallies to demand that the pro-military government of Prime Minister Imran Khan release her father. Former premier Sharif was removed by the country’s Supreme Court in 2017 on corruption allegations emanating from the so-called Panama Papers, leaked a year earlier. An anti-graft court later convicted both Sharif and Maryam and they were arrested in July 2018. But a higher court suspended the conviction and ordered the release of both father and daughter. Sharif was then convicted again in December on different charges, landing him back in jail. Vanguard News Nigeria. A team of Pakistani doctors is struggling to determine the cause of the deteriorating health condition of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, who is serving a seven-year sentence on corruption charges. Sharif has been moved from jail to hospital. The ex-PM was found to have a “critically low platelet count”… October 24, 2019 In "Foreign" Ousted Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and his daughter Maryam, both sentenced to lengthy jail terms in absentia, are due to return to Pakistan on Friday to face jail term. July 13, 2018 In "News" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri To remain in prison custody until Dec 14 Police join suspect's mother, brother as co-defendants ABUJA—An Abuja High Court sitting at Jabi yesterday, directed that Maryam Sanda, wife of the murdered son of erstwhile Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Bilyamin Bello, should remain in prison custody… December 8, 2017 In "News"