Linkage Assurance Plc has secured the approval of its shareholders to increase the authorized share capital of the company from N7.5 billion to N15 billion by the creation of additional 30,000,000,000 billion ordinary shares at 50 kobos each. This is to enable the general business insurer to meet the new minimum capital requirement set for insurance companies in the industry and position it for bigger ticket risks in the market. Directors of the company at an Extra-Ordinary General Meeting held in Lagos also secured the approval of the shareholders to raise additional equity capital up to the maximum limit of the authorized share capital, whether by way of special placement or public offer, rights issue or other methods or combination of any of them, either locally or internationally and upon such terms and conditions as the directors may deem fit in the interest of the company and subject to the approval of the regulatory authorities. Chairman of the company, Joshua Fumudoh,  addressing shareholders at the meeting said: “The new share capital regime provides a unique opportunity for the company to strategically position itself as a key market leader.” Fumudoh, therefore, assured the shareholders, that the Board and Management will utilize the additional equity capital to expand, grow the business and ensure consistent returns on investment to shareholders. Daniel Braie, MD/CEO, Linkage Assurance Plc said the board has quite a number of options to recapitalize the company, but assured that any decision that will be taken at the end will be in the overall interest of the shareholders. Vanguard Industry operators have linked the rising incidences of petroleum tanker accidents to the near absence of insurance services in that unit of the transport sector. November 5, 2019 In "Business" INSURANCE industry operators may have abandoned a huge transport sector business segment holding annual premium income estimated at N30 billion in the articulated haulage vehicles (trailers and tankers) due to incongruent operations risk structure. October 2, 2017 In "Business" All buildings are exposed to disasters like fire, collapse, earthquakes, storm or flood. However, if any of such disasters befall a public building; the loss that will emanate from such incident will definitely be massive compared to if a private building had been affected. Unfortunately, many public buildings have been… July 4, 2016 In "Business"