The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed concern about the attack on the state secretariat of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) by thugs alleged to the loyal to a political party. PDP in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan on Sunday in Abuja, urged the Inspector-General of Police to bring the perpetrators of such heinous crimes to book. Ologbondiyan also condemned the threats of violence on the PDP, noting that such would never deter the party from attaining victory in the Nov.16, governorship election. He said that the party’s position was predicated on reported threats by a governorship candidate and his party to unleash violence and disrupt PDP campaigns in Kogi Central senatorial zone. He said that such a person was apparently distressed by the massive support PDP candidate, Mr Musa Wada, was enjoying across the state. He said that the people of Kogi were on the move with the PDP in their readiness to confront and dismantle planned violence. He also called on  the attention of security agencies to reports of a  training ground for thugs in Kogi Central District He called on the Inspector General of Police and the military hierarchy to immediately call Gov. Yahaya Bello and the APC to order. He also called for urgent steps to ensure adequate security to safeguard lives and property in the electioneering time frame of the Nov. 16 election in the state. Vanguard Tasks IGP on Bello's ex-ADC Accuses Bello of instigating violence in Kogi Central By Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has vowed to inflict electoral defeat on the sitting governor, Yahaya Bello, and the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC,… November 10, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has called for the immediate and unconditional release of its Head of Security in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi, Mr Edeh Abutu, and others allegedly arrested in the state. The party made the call at a news conference addressed by its National Publicity Secretary,… November 3, 2019 In "News" THE Police in Osun State yesterday warned troublemakers to stay away from the seven polling units where rerun governorship election will be held, today warning violators that they would have themselves to blame. September 27, 2018 In "Politics"