A court in Suriname on Friday convicted President Desi Bouterse of murder for the execution of 15 opponents in 1982 following a coup to seize power, sentencing the man who has dominated the former Dutch colony’s recent history to 20 years in prison. Opposition parties called for Bouterse, currently in China on an official visit, to step down. The military court that found him guilty has not yet ordered his arrest. Bouterse was expected to return to Suriname on Saturday or Sunday, skipping a planned trip to Cuba, the vice president of his National Democratic Party told local newspaper De Ware Tijd. Ramon Abrahams told the paper he was in telephone contact with Bouterse and called an emergency meeting of the party. Bouterse led the South American country through the 1980s as head of a military government, then assumed office again in 2010 and secured re-election five years later. The court ruled that Bouterse had overseen an operation in which soldiers under his command abducted 16 leading government critics – including lawyers, journalists and university teachers – from their homes and killed 15 of them at a colonial fortress in the capital Paramaribo. One trade union leader survived and later gave testimony against Bouterse. Bouterse, who has steadfastly denied the charges, is able to appeal the decision. The president, who was represented by a lawyer in the trial, has so far made no comment on his conviction. In a statement, the Surinamese government said it had “taken note of the developments and calls on the community to keep the peace.” Critics have vilified the 74-year-old Bouterse as a dictator who has clung to power in the country of 560,000 people, which gained independence from the Netherlands in 1975. Angelic del Castillo, head of the opposition Democratic Alternative ‘91 party, said Bouterse had “disqualified himself” from remaining Suriname’s leader and demanded he immediately resign. “This is in the interest of the dignity of the office and of our nation,” del Castillo said in a statement. Source: Reuters Vanguard News International organizations warned on Friday of a potential resurgence of Ebola in Congo after deadly militia attacks on health centers forced aid groups to suspend operations and withdraw staff from the epidemic’s last strongholds. Mai Mai militia fighters killed four people and injured several others at two Ebola centers on… November 30, 2019 In "Health" An avowed white supremacist, John King convicted of a notorious racist murder — chaining an African-American to the back of a pickup truck and dragging him to his death — is to be executed on Wednesday in the US state of Texas. April 24, 2019 In "News" A prominent member of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP has described 'October 1st' under President Muhammadu Buhari's led government as the worst ever in the history of independence day celebrations in the country. October 1, 2016 In "News"