The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has condemned and rejected the Hate Speech Prohibition Bill in the National Assembly, seeking stringent punishment including death by hanging as a penalty. The party gave the rejection in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan on Wednesday in Abuja. He said that in as much as the PDP did not condone hate speech under any guise, it regarded the bill as “unconstitutional, undemocratic and a barbarous”. He said that the provisions of the bill were deliberately hazy and nebulous with the malicious intention to victimise innocent Nigerians. Ologbondiyan said that the bill was targeted at official extermination of the voice of dissent and perceived opposition. He said that Nigeria already had enough constitutional provisions and extant laws to safeguard a sane and healthy public expression space, adding that such law could not find its way in Nigeria. He recalled that the bill was rejected in the Senate in 2018, only for it to be reintroduced. “Our party holds that if allowed to pass, the hate speech prohibition bill, with its savage provisions, would destroy our democratic order, strip our constitutional provisions, the rights of citizens and usher in a full-blown despotism in Nigeria.” Ologbondiyan advised sponsors of the bill to retrace their steps and withdraw the bill. “The PDP also charges the National Assembly to protect our nation by
throwing away the bill. “If anything, NASS should use its legislative instruments to strengthen our institutions and authorities vested with the regulation of public expression in line with the provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended).” Vanguard Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for assenting to the “Not-Too-Young-To-Run’’. June 1, 2018 In "News" Lawyers and media  group have faulted the bill before the Senate, which prescribed death by hanging for the offence of hate speech. Already, the controversial bill has passed second reading. March 6, 2018 In "News" As campaigns for next year’s general elections intensify, the major political parties and the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC have been trading accusations and counter accusations on alleged plans to rig the elections. The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, said  yesterday that the move by the electoral commission… December 15, 2018 In "Headlines"