By Samuel Oyadongha & Emem Idio  YENAGOA — The national leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party comprising the National Working Working Committee, national lawmakers elected on its platform, members of the Board of Trustees, yesterday, asserted the dominance of the party in the politics of Bayelsa State. The National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, the 2019 Vice Presidential Candidate of the party, Dr. Peter Obi; Governor of Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson; other governors, among others said that the All Progressives Congress, APC was no option in the governance of Bayelsa. The PDP leaders said only a tested, articulate and experienced public servant in the mould of Senator Douye Diri, the candidate of the PDP would continue with the  developmental exploits of the Governor Seriake Dickson-led Administration. They urged Bayelsans to reject the opposition APC to prevent Dickson’s legacies from being destroyed by the APC and its candidate, Chief David Lyon who they said lacked the requisite capacity to govern Bayelsa. The PDP leaders spoke while addressing the governorship mega rally of the party in Yenagoa. The National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, said that it was rather unfortunate that the APC presented an unelectable candidate lacking in capacity to represent himself, Bayelsa and Ijaw people for the governorship of the state. Secondus said that the APC and its leaders should tender an open apology to the People of Bayelsa and Nigerians for presenting David Lyon to Bayelsa for the position of governor. He said that the leader of the APC in the state, and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva did not show love for his native Bayelsa when he left competent citizens with requisite academic qualifications and experience and came up with Lyon. Secondus said that the unprecedented crowd and massive number of APC members who defected to the PDP in their thousands was a clear message that Bayelsans have rejected the APC. Secondus took a swipe at the APC which he said had damaged the country and inflicted hardship on the people since it took over political control at the centre in 2015. Secondus noted that the party which wrested control of the Presidency from a son of Bayelsa has deliberately refused to embark on developmental projects in state and should be paid back with rejection. He said: “As soon as they took over in 2015, the entire system collapsed, the government collapsed, security collapsed, hunger came in, banking and everything collapsed in the country. Will you vote for them? “The country has been damaged by APC government. Do not be deceived, this country has been damaged, our electoral process has been damaged, it is only PDP that can rescue it. “When you are a governor, you must speak to an international community, you must speak to the nation, it is not a village affair, we don’t want people who will go there and be intimidated, and they cannot represent Bayelsa.” “The security agencies should not allow themselves to be used by APC to ruin this election, the country is suffering because of the damage done to our election. We don’t want a repetition of what happened in Rivers. All those in authority should allow peace to prevail. Stop damaging the country, people are in hunger, let’s start from Bayelsa, to practice free and fair election, one man one vote.” In his speech, Governor Dickson said the PDP is the only platform that has given Bayelsa and the Ijaw nation a voice and brought a lot of fortunes to the people. The governor who noted that the restoration government had weathered what he described as political storms from 2015 to date, expressed confidence that the party would celebrate victory once on November 16. Urging all eligible voters to support the  Diri/Lawrence ticket to ensure continuity of the good works started by his administration, he said: “The umbrella is the party that has shielded us from all storms. The PDP is the only party that has given us a face. Our party has overwhelming majority at all levels from the state to the National Assembly. “Here is a message to those in uniform services who will be told to rig the election. Know clearly that our people are ready to vote for peace, stability and investments in all its ramifications. While we call for professionalism, the world should know that Bayelsa is the heartland of the PDP.” Also speaking, Governor of Bauchi State and chairman of the PDP National Campaign Council, Senator Bala Mohammed, described Bayelsa as strategic to the economic well-being of the country. Senator Mohammed urged the people not to allow what he termed as forces of darkness to prevail in the coming election. Speaking on behalf of other PDP governors, Governor of Sokoto State,  Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, said the party is aware of the APC’s plan to rig the election, stressing that the mammoth crowd is a clear testimony that Bayelsa is a PDP state. Also in his speech, the PDP Governorship candidate, Senator Douye Diri, said he would prioritise the completion of the three senatorial roads, Agge Deep Seaport and Brass National Liquefied Natural Gas project when elected into office, through partnership with multi-national oil companies operating in the state. Other dignitaries who spoke at the rally included former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara, Senate Minority Leader, Senator Eyinnaya Abaribe and PDP National Women leader, Hajia Mariam Waziri. Other governors at the event were, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta; Emeka Ihedioha, Imo; and Seyi Makinde, Oyo. Samuel Oyadongha and Emem Idio GOVERNORS of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), led by the Chairman of the Bayelsa PDP campaign National Council, Senator Bala Mohammed, former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, National Working Committee (NWC) of the party led by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and the… November 6, 2019 In "News" By Samuel Oyadongha Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State, Governor Seriake Dickson has urged the people of the state to arm themselves with their permanent voters cards and vote the umbrella the People's Democratic Party (PDP)  to ensure sustainable development. Dickson made the appeal Thursday when… November 1, 2019 In "News" NOT a few were stunned at the recent eruption of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State against his Bayelsa State counterpart, Governor Seriake Dickson, who he lambasted among other things for visiting a monarch in Kalabari Kingdom, Rivers state, without the courtesy of notifying Government House, Port-Harcourt. December 28, 2019 In "News"