The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has described his victory at the Appeal Court, Ibadan on the appeal filed by the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and its gubernatorial candidate as a triumph of truth and democracy. Abiodun, whose position was contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, said, “today’s victory is a triumph of truth and democracy.  I give all the glory to the Almighty God, for I remain a testimony to his faithfulness”. He said, “this victory has rekindled our drive to do more in Building Our Future Together agenda and every village, hamlet, town or city will not be left out in the scheme of our inclusive development”. “Life is hinged on hope, our administration has restored hope to the people and we shall not relent until every citizen of the State attains individual prosperity whilst ensuring adequate security and putting the state on the path of sustainable development”. “Whilst thanking all the good people of Ogun State who have entrusted us with their mandate, again we remain committed to providing a focused and qualitative governance that will be inclusive, participatory, accountable, transparent, fair, just and equitable”. “The time has now come for all our adversaries to sheath their swords and join forces with our administration, if indeed the motive is to serve the good people of our dear state. The common goal is the economic development of Ogun State and individual prosperity of our citizens”, Abiodun said. “Together, we can build a secure, purposeful and prosperous state. Let all of us join hands to build a better future and engender unity, peace, development, through good governance that Ogun has witnessed in the last five months of our administration”. “We specially thank our team of lawyers led by Prof. Taiwo Osipitan for their exemplary professionalism, diligence and masterful delivery of points of law”. “We appreciate the leadership of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC), for their steadfastness and support”, he added. “In addition we wish to express our sincere appreciation to the judiciary once again for playing its role as impartial arbiter with courage, fairness and candour”. “We are equally grateful for the solidarity and unwavering support of the APC faithful across the 236 wards of our state and their ‘Omoluwabi’ conduct throughout this tortuous journey to the land of total victory”. The governor added, “may we also applaud the sincerity of all the other 80 parties that have, even before now, responded positively to our hands of fellowship. Like true sportsmen and women, they have continued to identify with our Government and only last week passed their vote of confidence in us. We will continue to keep open the window of fellowship to all political actors and indeed all interest groups”. Vanguard News By James Ogunnaike Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has hailed the Supreme Court verdict upholding his election in the March 9 gubernatorial election in the State. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Kunle Somorin and made available to newsmen in Abeokuta, the Governor described… December 18, 2019 In "News" The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has congratulated Gov. Dapo Abiodun of Ogun on his victory at the state governorship elections petition tribunal, urging him to be magnanimous in victory. September 14, 2019 In "News" ABEOKUTA--A three-term member of the Federal House of Representatives, Hon Abiodun Akinlade, has urged electorate in Ogun State to vote for the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, in Saturday’s governorship election in the state. March 5, 2019 In "News"