AS part of measures to reduce high transaction cost in the capital market, the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS, has emphasized the need for operators in the market to embrace Financial Technology, FinTech, in their operations. The Chairman, CIS Annual Conference Organising Committee, Abiola Adekoya, on the sidelines of a press briefing for the Institute’s forth coming 23rd Annual Conference in Lagos, weekend told Financial Vanguard that the advent of FinTech will help to reduce transaction cost for both operators and investors in the market. She said: “We are going to encourage operators to embrace the FinTech in their operations as we have seen the banks collaborating with the FinTech firms in providing services that eventually lead to reduction in cost of transactions, speed up processes and improve efficiency. The FinTech would have great impact in our market when all operators embrace this technology. “In the capital market, the use of FinTech will eliminate the physical stress of going to the bank to open account for clients, and open Central Securities Clearing System, CSCS, account. It will also help reduce settlement cycle for securities transactions and reduce paper work that goes with cost among others. An investor who wants to partake in the capital market can stay in the comfort of his house to affect deals and so on.” Vanguard SINCE the expiration of tenure of SEC commissioners, nothing has been said. When is SEC Board going to constituted? We don’t have power to constitute the Board, but I believe the relevant authorities and the honourable minister and relevant officers are aware that commissioners are on the Board. It is… July 31, 2017 In "Finance" WORLD'S leading accounting and management firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers, PwC, has revealed that the Nigerian retail banking and payments sectors will be the most disrupted by a group of new companies building Financial Technology (FinTech) solutions. February 20, 2017 In "Business" The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan has disclosed that the Bank is leveraging technology to push the frontiers of financial inclusion of the unbanked and under-banked in the country. The Managing Director said this in his keynote presentation at the Vanguard Economic Forum series on mobile money market and… September 7, 2019 In "Business"