The Sokoto State government has granted amnesty to about 8,000 suspected ghost workers and those collecting abnormal salaries under its payroll. Alhaji Abdussamad Dasuki, the Finance Commissioner and Acting Chairman, Sokoto State Steering Committee on Integrated Payroll and Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), disclose this in a news conference on Thursday in Sokoto. Dasuki said the initiative was to enable civil servants collecting salaries they don’t earn and those engaged in improper practices against regulations to come forward and open up under confidentiality and guaranteed state pardon. He said that the period of the amnesty began from Nov. 27, to end on Dec. 9, 2019, by 12 midnight. “Government is, therefore, calling on those concerned to avail themselves of this initiative. “At the end of this period-appropriate sanctions will be meted out to those found wanting in accordance with Civil Service Rules and relevant laws,” he said. The commissioner added that in the course of the committee’s activities, a lot of wrongdoings were discovered. “These include suspected ghost workers, wrong computation of salaries, and inappropriate and inflated implementation of salary scales of certain cadres of civil servants. “Similarly, civil servants or members of the public with relevant information that can assist in the discovery and/or resolution of problems in the payroll system are invited to approach the committee. “However, this is with the assurance of confidentiality and reward where appropriate. “Those willing to cooperate can contact the committee directly or reach out through the following phone numbers: 08105475900, 08144885521 08106010490,” he said. According to Dasuki, they can also reach the committee through any of its members, member of the State Executive Council, Special Advisers, Permanent Secretaries or Directors-General, with an equal guarantee of secrecy and appreciation. Vanguard Sokoto State Government said it had deleted 13, 415 ghost names from the payrolls of the 23 local councils of the state. May 25, 2017 In "News" The committee set up by the Bauchi State Government to verify workers without Bank Verification Numbers (BVN), says it has so far discovered eight workers using one BVN to collect salaries. The Chairman of the committee, Sen. Adamu Gumba disclosed this in Bauchi in an interview with the News Agency… November 26, 2019 In "News" Many state governments have used the third tranche of the Paris Club refund to pay the arrears of workers’ salary and pension, a survey by the News Agency of Nigeria has revealed. January 19, 2018 In "Business"