Winner of the 2019 National Universities Commission (NUC) and the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) Essay Competition, Osemede Ikponmwosa, has commended Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, for prioritizing investment in mental infrastructure. Ikponmwosa, who hails from Edo and a 400-level medical student at the University of Benin, gave the commendation after presenting his award to the governor at Government House in Benin City. He said, “I came here to present the award to the governor because he has focused on developing mental infrastructure, youth empowerment and the need to shun violence. “I have been able to draw from Governor Obaseki’s motivation to Edo youths and I feel his advice is being heeded to by youths in the state.” Ikponmwosa said he is impressed with the governor’s policies on youth and human capital development. He urged young people in the state to support the Governor Obaseki-led administration, adding, “The governor has done a lot as regards youth empowerment through the various initiatives spearheaded by the Edo State Skills Development Agency (EdoJobs) and I believe every Edo youth should support the governor and shun social vices.” Vanguard News In what has become a habitual winning streak, a medical student at the University of Benin, Ikponmwosa Kingsley Osamede, has emerged winner of a national essay competition organised by the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) and the National Universities Commission (NUC). The award ceremony held at Transcorp Hilton Abuja, where… October 11, 2019 In "Education" In his continuing effort to acknowledge intellectual prowess of Edo indigenes, Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki hosted Mr. Osamede Ikponmwosa Kingsley, who won the 1st Prize in the Annual Oil & Gas Undergraduate Essay competition on Friday, December 15, 2017. December 16, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) in partnership with the National Universities Commission (NUC) has announced the 25th Nigerian Economic Summit (NES) essay competition with the theme " Enhancing Confidence in Nigeria for Nation Building: Towards Economic Success and Improved Quality of Life for Nigerians" June 25, 2019 In "News"