The All Progressives Congress Governorship Campaign Council has told the Kogi State Chapter Of the People’s Democratic Party to stop spreading fake news and face its imminent defeat in Saturday Governorship poll. The Chairman, Media and Publicity Committee Of the Bello/ Onoja Campaign Council, Hon. Kingsley Fanwo gave the advice while fielding questions from journalists shortly after the APC Mega Rally in Lokoja, Thursday. His words: “Let me start by thanking the people of our dear state for coming out enmasse to support our Governorship candidate and our party right from the beginning of this electioneering. Governor Bello will not disappoint you. “The intimidating number of people who attended our rallies is the reason the PDP has recruited its best fact twisters to spread falsehood against our party. “Musa Wada became a controversial candidate of his party after sharing dollars and motorbikes openly. The primary was greeted with booms of gunshots after which he was declared winner the following day. His mercenaries have been attacking our supporters across the state and even burning houses. “To turn around and point accusing fingers at us is hypocritical and diversionary. We have no intention of bribing anyone to win. We have the people behind us”. Fanwo charged security agencies to fish out the “imported killers” of the PDP before Saturday’s poll; saying PDP is raising “false alarm” to scare voters from coming out to exercise their franchise. “We believe in the neutrality of state institutions to organize and supervise a free, fair and peaceful election in Kogi State on Saturday. “For close to four years, Governor Yahaya Bello has implemented policies and programs that have endeared him to the people of the State. The only thing Wada has on record is the failure of his brother for four years”. The image maker said there were “surreptitious attempts” by the PDP to bribe INEC and security agencies. “We are not oblivious of some surreptitious moves by PDP to induce INEC officials and security agents ahead of the election. Their failure had drawn them to the conclusion that all parties are as corrupt and as perfidious as they are. APC believes in FairPlay and the support of the Kogi people to record a historic victory on Saturday”, he said. He called on the voters not to be intimidated by the “threats of the PDP”, saying government institutions are strong enough to protect them from the “desperate and dubious Dubai debacles”. VANGUARD PDP candidate is strange to Kogi — APC Accept defeat, PDP tells Bello, alleges plot to abort its campaign By Boluwaji Obahopo & Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of their campaign flag-off the ruling APC and main opposition PDP are in war of words over their chances of winning the governorship election.… October 24, 2019 In "News" **Says PDP is Imploding By Boluwaji Obahopo - Lokoja The Campaign Council Of the All Progressives Congress has said the array of personalities in the campaign council and the swell of support across the State can only mean it is only Governor Yahaya Bello that defeat himself in the November… October 13, 2019 In "News" Spokesperson to Kogi State Governor, Kingsley Fanwo has slammed the opposition, PDP, for “spreading fake news and leveling reckless accusations against the Governor over claims of attacks in the State”, stating that PDP is merely “wailing over its imminent defeat in the State”. January 22, 2019 In "News"