Former governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, Mr. Moses Siasia, has said the results of Southern Ijaw and Nembe Local Government Areas and other places in Saturday’s gubernatorial poll represents the wishes of Bayelsans. He also lauded Bayelsans for coming out to exercise their  civic responsibilities. According to a statement he made available to newsmen shortly after the end of the exercise, Siasia described the process as largely peaceful and commended Bayelsans for conducting themselves orderly. The statement called on INEC not to allow self serving politicians tamper with the will of the people as expressed in yesterday’s election but to declare the result that will reflect the true voting pattern of the people. The statement frowned at the desperation of some politicians who are bent on subverting the will of the people and called on Bayelsans to desist from acts capable of sparking post election crises. He noted that the election results from Southern Ijaw, Nembe and other parts of the state truly reflects the will of our people, saying all those calling for cancellation are enemies of a transparent and peace electoral process and they want to avert the will of the people. Mr. Siasia who is also Chairman, Nigerian  Young Professionals Forum NYPF called on key actors and stakeholders to see the just concluded governorship election  as the will of God and accept the outcome in good faith. The statement further advised politicians and candidates who may have misgivings about the final result when it is eventually announced to pursue their case in accordance with the laws of the land rather than resort to self help.  The battle is far from over for the two leading political parties in the Bayelsa State governorship election, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and the All Progressive Congress,APC following the cancellation of the last Sunday rescheduled election in Southern Ijaw Local Council by the Independent National Election Commission over alleged… December 9, 2015 In "News" The candidate of Progressive Democratic Movement, PDM, in the just concluded Bayelsa State governorship election, Moses Siasia, Tuesday, congratulated the winner of the poll, Governor Seriake Dickson, calling on him to be magnanimous in victory and in his developmental approach. January 12, 2016 In "News" WITH official results from five of the eight local councils, Governor Seriake Dickson of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, emerged as the front runner in the Bayelsa State Governorship election having scored 81,929 votes. December 7, 2015 In "Headlines"