The Ogun State government has canceled the monthly sanitation exercise for November 2019, in the State. The government said it has also lifted the restriction of movement order. This, the State government said would enable secondary school students across the state to take part in the on-going National Examination Council (NECO) examinations. In a statement by Kunle Somorin, the Chief Press Secretary to the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun while giving the approval said the decision was arrived at after reviewing the challenges that the restriction of movement order would have on the Mathematics paper in the NECO exams scheduled for Saturday and which coincides with the timing of the monthly sanitation exercise. “It has become expedient that the interest of the students is considered. Mathematics is a general subject and we need to facilitate hitch-free preparation and movement of students, teachers, and NECO officials and examiners to various centres where the exams would hold within and outside the state”, the statement said. Abiodun, however, implored all citizens to ensure that the cleaning exercise is observed at their various houses, irrespective of the non-restriction of movement during the period of the exercise. He further noted that it was imperative that all drainage channels be kept free of silts and refuse to avoid flooding of homes that could lead to the destruction of lives and properties. “Cleaning should not be one-month affair. We need to take care of our personal hygiene and clean our environment regularly and on a daily basis to avoid the outbreak of cholera and other preventable and communicable diseases that could lead to epidemics,” the statement further said. The governor mentioned that the Ministry of Environment and the Ogun State Environmental Protection Agency (OGEPA) have been mandated to go round and collect refuse generated during a period of the exercise, while Environmental Health Officers have also been directed to ensure compliance with Public health regulations and bring offenders to book. vanguard By James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta The Ogun State government has cancelled the monthly sanitation exercise for November, 2019, in the State. The government said it has also lifted restriction of movement order. This, the State government said would enable secondary school students across the state to take part in the on-going… November 29, 2019 In "News" Lagos State Govern-ment has suspended the restriction order on movement for the monthly sanitation exercise on October 30 and November 27, to allow for free movement of examination materials, invigilators and the students that will be partaking in the November/ December 2010 National Examination Council, NECO, examinations. October 28, 2010 In "News" James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has visited the people of Ibefun in Odogbolu Local Government Area, who were affected by a rainstorm, with a promised that his administration would respond adequately to any form of disaster in any part of the State to ensure that… November 29, 2019 In "News"