Mr Ibrahim Emokpaire, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) says its National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, is key to the party’s discipline, supremacy and re-positioning for greater heights. He said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja, while reacting to the alleged internal wrangling within the party. Emokpaire, a former APC national chairmanship aspirant, and the founder of Progressive Solidarity Forum, (PSF), said Oshiomhole had brought discipline and stability to the APC and was repositioning the party for greater heights. The APC chieftain stressed that to uphold discipline and supremacy of the party, Oshiomhole should, therefore, remain as its national chairman. According to him, those calling for Oshiomhole’s sack as the APC national chairman do not mean well for the party, they are detractors that should not be reckoned with. Emokpaire said this was not the time to call for Oshiomhole’s sack if the party must remain united as one big family to continue winning elections. He recalled that before Oshiomhole’s election, the party had turbulent times, when indiscipline was the order of the day in most of its state chapters across the federation. “The loss of Rivers and Zamfara states was due to selfishness, greed and indiscipline of individuals in the party which was the hangover from the immediate past national chairman. “Oshiomole has brought back some discipline in the party and has put in place ground rules of no go areas for it. “Since he took over the affairs of the party, he has not lost any offseason election as seen in Ekiti, Osun and just recently Kogi and Bayelsa. “With Oshiomhole at the helm of affairs, the opposition are not comfortable because of his doggedness and no-nonsense approach, but do-it-right administration,” Emokpaire said. This, he said, was the reason members of the opposition were doing everything possible to get him out of office using some APC members. He advised those championing negative campaigns against Oshiomhole to be circumspect and to restrain their utterances. Emokpaire further advised that the leadership of the party and its National Executive Council (NEC) should pass a Vote Of Confidence on Oshiomhole. Vanguard News Nigeria. Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire, a national chairmanship of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday announced his withdrawal from the race, saying his decision was to enhance loyalty and party discipline. June 12, 2018 In "News" A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), United Kingdom chapter, Mr Ibrahim Emokpaire, has expressed desire to be the next national chairman of the party. April 27, 2018 In "News" A group of Nigerian professionals, within and outside Nigeria, Contact Group (CG) has urged former Chairman of Action Congress of Nigeria, United Kingdom Chapter, Dr. Ibrahim Emokpaire to join the race for the post of the National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC). April 25, 2018 In "News"