Enyimba downed Akwa United 3-1 in NPFL action on Sunday, while Lobi Stars also secured a massive victory away at Kano Pillars. MFM FC were big winners in the NPFL away at Enugu Rangers, defeating the Caf Confederation Cup group stage contenders 1-0, while newly promoted Jigawa Gold Stars’ wait for a maiden league victory continues, as they were thumped 4-1 at Delta Force. Austin Oladapo opened the scoring from the penalty spot for Enyimba—his third goal in two matches—as they took on United, after an initial attempt had been handled in the box. Stanley Dimgba, after a fine assist from Cyril Olisema, playing against his former club, and Samson Obi added to the hosts’ tally inside the first 33 minutes. Mfon Udoh pulled one back for United, but the visitors, despite seeing a lot more of the ball, were unable to bounce back, although they did stem the tide against the People’s Elephant, who had appeared rampant during the opening stages. Rabiu Tata’s Jigawa GS are struggling to adapt to life in the top flight, having taken just two points from their four matches before Sunday’s encounter. Things got no better on Sunday, with Mubarak Abdulsallam, Isaac Oduru and Isaac Oduro giving Delta Force a commanding lead before Ali Musa pulled one back for the beleaguered new boys. Williams Nmesitionye added the fourth for Delta Force as they picked up a fine victory. “We’re confident that we can steady the ship and, all things being equal, when we do, we’ll get things right,” captain Lengkat Issah had told local sources before the match, but on the basis of this evidence, the clouds aren’t expected to clear any time soon. MFM FC continue to impress under new management this term, with Chuks Kenedinum scoring the only goal of the game as Rangers were stunned at home. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Table toppers, Lobi Stars Football Club on Sunday underlined their 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) title credentials by edging a tightly-contested encounter against 10-man visiting Kano Pillars 1-0 in Makurdi. April 22, 2018 In "Sports" The NPFL returned with a big bang Sunday with Enyimba, FC Ifeanyiubah and Lobi Stars winning on the road, while leaders Plateau United and Akwa United recorded away draws. May 22, 2017 In "Sports" Rangers are back on top of the Nigeria league table after they forced a 1-1 draw in the ‘Oriental Derby’ against champions Enyimba. July 31, 2016 In "Sports"