THE traditional prime minister of Tuomo kingdom in Delta and Bayelsa states, Chief Mike Loyibo has appealed to all parties involved in the Bayelsa and Kogi state governorship elections to maintain peace during and after the polls. Chief Loyibo who is also a Niger Delta activist while condemning the pockets of violence particularly in the Nembe area of Bayelsa State, tasked the political gladiators to think of the people first before their personal interest. Expressing fears that he is worried over the spate of counter-attacks by the politicians, Loyibo charged politicians to adopt the Goodluck Jonathan brand of politics by accepting the outcome of the elections. He said: “Politicians should put the interest of their people and state first rather than being desperate for political office. “They should also try to imbibe the Goodluck Jonathan brand of politics by accepting whatever outcome of the elections irrespective of the political party that lost. “As an Ijaw leader, I am worried over the conduct of politicians during the polls especially in parts of my kingdom in Bayelsa State.” “The elections shouldn’t be about PDP or APC and we should not allow politics divide us as a people. VANGUARD NIGER Delta activist and traditional Prime Minister of Tuomo Kingdom in Burutu and Ekeremo Local Government Areas of Delta and Bayelsa States, Chief Mike Loyibo, Saturday said that former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Elder Godsday Orubebe benefited immensely from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, as a “super minister” under… July 20, 2019 In "News" IT was like a bolt from the blue when a coalition of nine militant groups, convened by the leader of the Reformed Niger Delta Avengers, RNDA, self- styled “Major General Johnmark Ezonbi, announced the withdrawal of the approval given to the Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, the umbrella body of… August 26, 2017 In "Interview" NIGER Delta activist and traditional prime minister of Tuomo Kingdom in Burutu and Ekeremo Local Government Areas of Delta and Bayelsa States, Chief Mike Loyibo, has asked Nigerians irrespective of religion, political affiliation or tribe to be security conscious during the Eid-el-kabir celebrations. August 11, 2019 In "News"