CONTRARY to speculations that smugglers smarting from the closure of land borders have re-routed their activities through the waterways, the Nigeria Customs Service says since the deployment of its sea going patrol boats, Customs Pride, and the Group of Nine, smugglers have largely deserted the use of the waterways to peddle their trade. Customs Area Controller, Western Marine Command, Comptroller Boyiliya Binga, who disclosed this last week also announced the seizure of assortments of questionable goods including military and security services fabrics, estimated at N61.611, 925.00. Binga told Vanguard Maritime Report that the seizures include 433x50kg bags of foreign parboiled rice, second hand clothing and shoes, buffalo horns, machetes etc. Amongst the fabrics displayed are clothing materials for Mopol, Immigration, Navy and Quarantine. He said: “When the big masquerade is out, it keeps away many people, including smaller masquerades. Our sea going patrol boats have been very active and this has scared away many smugglers. So the narrative has since changed, big time smugglers know that if they choose the waterways they will be doomed, now they know of the confrontation is over because the sight of our boats alone is scaring.” The seizures include 3000 empty 25litre kegs used for smuggling of fuel, which the Customs marine boss said were abandoned by their owners when they sensed the trail of operatives. He said some of the seized items including the matches were dutiable trade goods but which the importers elected to smuggle instead of paying the prescribed customs duty and comfortably taking their deliveries. Binga said with sustained 24hours patrol on the waterways boosted by the services patrol boats, recalcitrant smugglers would have no hiding place. Vanguard THERE appears to be uncertainty over the information that smugglers are now using waterways other than the sea ports to bring in goods following the closure of land borders. November 6, 2019 In "News" Rice smugglers carrying out their activities through the creeks have been warned  to desist or be ready to face prosecution by the Western Marine Command, WMC, of Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, as the command has increased measures in the region to curtail illicit items from coming in through the waterways. October 1, 2017 In "News" In the last two years, the Western Marine Command (WMC) of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) recorded huge seizures of Cannabis Sativa, smuggled into the country through the marine area. June 4, 2017 In "Business"