The Association of Primary School Head Teachers of Nigeria (AOPSHON), Enugu state Wing, has called for the extension of teachers’ retirement age in the state from 60 years to 65 years. The association’s Chairman, Mr Chilotanwa Okoli, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on Friday that the state government should also review the teachers’ service duration to 40 years. According to him, the teachers’ service duration and retirement age should be at par with lecturers in the universities. He said: “We all know that the experiences and competencies of teachers increase with years of service and age. “Therefore, an increase in the number of years will be of immense benefit to our school children.’’ Okoli also called for the elevation of the position of Principal or Head Teachers General (HTG) in the state to Grade Level 17. He contended that some states had started promoting their teachers to the highest grade level, saying that Enugu state should follow suit. He requested for the appointment of more teachers as special assistants, personal assistants, executive assistants and permanent secretaries in the state. “This will evidently avail the state government the opportunity to tap from their rich experiences of our teachers,’’ he said. The association’s chairman commended the government for paying the 13th month of basic salaries to civil servants in the state in 2017 and 2018. “On behalf of headteachers, I hereby plead that this magnanimity be extended to the teachers in the primary school. “There is no doubt that the gesture will boost their morale and increase their productivity,’’ Okoli said. Vanguard News The Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) has demanded that the retirement of teachers of primary and secondary schools in the country be raised from 60 to 65 years. October 5, 2017 In "News" The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Yakubu Dogara, has assured Nigerian teachers that the National Assembly will increase their retirement age from 60 to 65 years to retain more experienced teachers in public schools. May 31, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) has submitted a new retirement age proposal to the Ministry of Education and the National Assembly for approval, education minister Adamu Adamu has confirmed. December 14, 2018 In "News"