Multiple award-winning Afrobeat hit maker, Burna Boy yesterday kept mum as some South African artistes under the aegis of Tshwane Collective wrote a petition to the country’s Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, kicking against his inclusion in two concerts scheduled for  November 23 and 24. The Africans Unite concerts, a response to recent xenophobia in the country is organized by Play Network Africa, based in Nigeria, in partnership with Phambili Media SA and appears to enjoy the support of South Africa’s department of arts and culture. The concerts expected to feature Burna Boy alongside artistes such as Kwesa and Jidenna. The first concert is scheduled to  hold at Hillcrest Quarry in Cape Town on 23 November, while the second concert  holds at Sun Arena, Time Square in Pretoria. The group, is said to be questioning the exclusion of local artists and Burna Boy’s invitation to perform at the concert, accusing the African Giant of inciting hatred against South Africa, in the wake of the xenophobic attacks. “Whoever may have deemed that the country needs a PR exercise of this nature would have done so largely as a result of the callous, misleading and unwarranted incitement by this very artist. Not only did he spread falsehoods through his extensive platform, he literally incited violence and hate. He further promised to inflict his own violence on locals before giving your government an ultimatum which you seem to have received and succumbed to”, the group reportedly  said in the letter to Nathi Mthethwa, minister of art and culture. Meanwhile, E-Daily check yesterday, revealed that  the ‘Ye’ crooner has not reacted to the protest against him on any of his social media platforms.  On his Instagram page,  he only  made a post  announcing the two concerts to his fans, and his resolve to  contribute a portion of the proceeds from the concert to the victims of xenophobic attacks. “I really hope we can all keep contributing in our own way to make the world a better and safer place for each other. Africans unite, it’s bigger than all of us,” he wrote on his Instagram page. Vanguard Juliet Ebirim Multiple award-winning Afrobeat hitmaker, Burna Boy, has kept mum as some South African artistes under the aegis of Tshwane Collective wrote a petition to the country's Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, kicking against his inclusion in two concerts scheduled for November 23 and 24. The Africans… November 14, 2019 In "Entertainment" YouTube on Tuesday launched its spotlight story documentary on Nigerian Afro-fusion singer and songwriter, Damini Ogulu, known professionally as Burna Boy. March 26, 2019 In "Music" It has been an eventful year for Nigeria’s Afropop singer, Burna Boy. Barely four months after he clinched the coveted ‘Best International Act’ award at this year's BET,in California, the ‘On the Low’ singer has recorded yet another milestone with 10 nominations in the forthcoming Headies Awards. October 7, 2019 In "Entertainment"