The Police Command in Enugu State says abducted Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Malachy Asadu, serving under Catholic Diocese of Nsukka, has been released. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Asadu was abducted on Monday by unknown persons in Nsukka town. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Ebere Amaraizu, who confirmed the release to NAN on Wednesday, said that the priest was released this evening. Amaraizu said that the priest had been reunited with the Catholic Diocese of Nsukka. “The kidnapped Nsukka Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Malachy Asadu, has been released and reunited with the Catholic Diocese of Nsukka this evening,’’ he said. The police spokesman, however, did not give further details on the release. NAN reports that another abducted Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Theophilus Ndulue, was released and reunited with the Catholic Diocese of Enugu 10 days ago. While about a month ago, Rev. Fr. Arinze Madu, Deputy Rector, Queen of the Apostle Spiritual Year Seminary, Imezi Owa in Ezeagu Local Government Area, was released by his abductors. Madu was kidnapped at the seminary’s gate on Oct. 29. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Police Command in Enugu State says it has activated the mechanism and heightened efforts to rescue abducted Catholic Priest, Rev.Fr. Malachy Asadu, serving under the Nsukka Catholic Diocese in Enugu State. November 26, 2019 In "News" The Enugu State Police Command said it has activated the mechanism and heightened efforts to rescue the abducted Catholic Priest of the Nsukka Catholic Diocese, Rev.Fr. Malachy Asadu. Asadu was abducted by unknown persons at Nsukka town on Monday. Some Catholic faithful, however, said the abducted priest was spotted last… November 26, 2019 In "News" The Police Command in Enugu State says that the abducted Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Theophilus Ndulue, has been released and reunited with the Catholic Diocese of Enugu. The command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Ebere Amaraizu, confirmed the release of the priest to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Enugu on… November 17, 2019 In "News"