The Speaker of the Plateau House of Assembly, Mr. Abok Ayuba, has congratulated Gov. Simon Lalong over his victory at the Court of Appeal. In a congratulatory message by his Director of Press, Mr. Bulus Atang, on Friday in Jos, Ayuba described the victory as a reflection of the wish of Plateau people. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Lt. Gen. Jeremiah Useni, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the governorship polls in the state had challenged the victory of Lalong at the election tribunal. The tribunal, on Oct. 2, dismissed Useni’s petition for lack of merit and upheld Lalong’s victory in the March 9 governorship election in the state. Dissatisfied with the ruling of the tribunal, Useni approached the Appellate Court. The Appeal Court sitting in Jos, on Friday, upheld the decision of the tribunal in favour of Lalong The Speaker further described the judgement as victory for democracy. “This is a victory for democracy because it reflects the wishes and aspirations of the people. “This will enable the governor to settle down and work to take Plateau to the next level,” he said The speaker called on the people of the state to support the governor to enable him to deliver the dividends of democracy to all. Ayuba assured the governor that the 9th assembly in the state would continue to support his administration to move the state forward. Vanguard News Reactions have continued to trail the Tribunal’s verdict which dismissed the petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and its governorship candidate, Senator Jeremiah Useni for lack of merit and upheld the election of the Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong of the All Progressives Congress, APC. October 3, 2019 In "News" The Court of Appeal sitting in Jos, Plateau State, on Friday affirmed the victory of Governor Simon Lalong in the state governorship election held on March 9. The court dismissed the appeal filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its governorship candidate, Jeremiah Useni, challenging the governor’s victory in… November 29, 2019 In "News" The Governorship Election Tribunal sitting in Jos, the Plateau State capital has upheld the election of Governor, Simon Lalong of All Progressives Congress, APC. October 27, 2015 In "News"