“Lol its a pattern, once they’re on trial they’re all sick and can’t stand, wheelchair stretchers replace their jeeps. Nigeria is not ready yet..” That was the comment of @ArafatMuazu, a Twitter when Vanguard published the news on the arrival of Abdulrasheed Maina in court in a wheelchair. Maina is a Former Chairman of Pension Reform Task Team. He is currently facing trial over his alleged complicity in a N2 billion fraud at the Federal High Court in Abuja. He seems not to be the first prominent Nigerian appearing at a trial with a wheelchair. In January 2016, Haliru Mohammed former ‎National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, appeared before a Federal High Court in Abuja following allegations of his involvement in the $2 billion arms deal. Full Story. In January 2016, Former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Patrick Akpobolokemi, appeared before a Federal High Court on crutches to face charges of fraud. In March 2018, former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olisa Metuh, who was facing corruption charges arrived the continuation of his trial before the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, in a wheelchair. Full Story. In May, 2018, Sen. Dino Melaye, the Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, during his trial before a Chief Magistrate Court in Abuja for attempting to kill himself by jumping out of a vehicle conveying him to Lokoja to face criminal allegations against him arrived the court in a stretcher. Full Story. In September 2019, Major General Hakeem Otiki, General Officer Commanding 8 Division Nigerian Army, appeared in a wheelchair during his trial in the General Court Martial (GCM) over the stealing of large sums of money put between #400million and #600 by soldiers attached to the GOC. Full Story. Vanguard News Nigeria. The former PDP chairman who is being prosecuted along with his son, for their role in the alleged diversion of funds amounting to N300m meant for procurement of arms by the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) arrived the court premises in a wheelchair. See photos January 5, 2016 In "News" Awaits ruling on his application for bail Former Chairman of Pension Reform Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, who is facing trial over his alleged complicity in a N2billion fraud, was on Thursday, brought before the Federal High Court in Abuja in a wheelchair for a continuation of his trial. Trial Justice… November 7, 2019 In "News" By Ikechukwu Nnochiri ABUJA - The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, today, arraigned the former ‎National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Dr. Haliru Bello‎, before the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court. ‎ Bello who was docked along with his son, Abba, on a four-count criminal… January 5, 2016 In "News"