THE Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, yesterday, expressed concern over indiscriminate court orders affecting its job. INEC’s National Commissioner and Chairman, Voters Education and Publicity, Festus Okoye, expressed the concern while speaking at a media parley in Lokoja ahead of Saturday’s elections in Kogi State. Okoye said even though the commission had resolved to obey every court order relating to conduct of election, it has become source of worry as such orders often slow down its job. “For instance, when a court gives order 48 hours to an election, which must be obeyed, it means the commission will have to put in extra effort to meet the deadline. “Only last week, the court asked us to involve the SDP on the ballot. While that was being done, just yesterday (Tuesday), another court gave order that APM must be included. “If only you know the logistic and efforts involved in printing ballot papers, you will understand why we are apprehensive of such 11th hour ruling.” Barrister Okoye called for dialogue on the extent to which the commission can exercise its power guaranteed by the constitution and electoral laws. He said that the commission will embark on presentation of robust proposals on electoral reforms to the National Assembly next year. “We will be bold, strong and courageous in our efforts to get our electoral system reformed so that our country can enjoy full benefits of democracy,” he added. Okoye also called for proper scrutiny of politicians to avoid recycling impunity. Vanguard By Boluwaji Obahopo, Lokoja The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC has expressed concerns over indiscriminate court orders affecting its job. INECs National Commissioner and Chairman, Voters Education and Publicity, Festus Okoye who expressed the concerns on Wednesday while speaking at a media parley in Lokoja ahead of Saturday's elections in… November 13, 2019 In "News" The Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, yesterday, ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to forthwith, issue Certificate of Return to the immediate-past Governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, as the Senator-elect for Imo West Senatorial District. June 8, 2019 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC has expressed concern over Fridays judgement of the Federal High Court ordering it to issue a Certificate of Return to former Gov. Rochas Okorocha as Senator-elect for Imo West. June 7, 2019 In "News"