Nigeria defeated Lesotho 4-2 in their second Group L qualifying game for the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations. Victor Osimhen took centre stage in Maseru with two goals and two assists as the Super Eagles showed resilience to turn around a goal deficit and grab maximum points. Rohr made two changes to his starting XI with Nantes forward Moses Simon and Leganes defender Chidozie Awaziem replacing Samuel Kalu and Jamiliu Collins, respectively. Lesotho took the lead in the 11th minute after Masoabi Nkoto sent the home fans into a frenzy with his header which beat a helpless Daniel Akpeyi in goal. Nkoto took advantage of a sloppy defence but Nigeria responded just before the half hour-mark with Alex Iwobi scoring the equaliser after benefitting from Osimhen’s pass. The three-time African champions dominated the game afterwards as Chukwueze headed the ball over an on-rushing Lichaba Thabiso in the Lesotho goal to put Nigeria in the lead just before half-time. Rohr’s men went into the interval ahead and started the second 45 minutes pushing for more goals. Fresh legs were thrown into the fray with Ramon Azeez replacing Joe Aribo in the 71st minute and four minutes after the substitution, Osimhen got his moment with the third goal after a fine piece of work from Ola Aina on the left flank. In the 85th minute, Azeez later turned provider for the fourth as Osimhen beat the goalkeeper before slotting the ball into the back of an empty net. Just at the death of the game, Awaziem turned the ball into his own net as Lesotho reduced the deficit to 4-2. Sunday’s triumph stretches Nigeria’s tally in Group L to six points after two outings while their Southern African opponents have just a single point after two games. The Super Eagles’ next group game is against Sierra Leone in August 2020 Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Gernot Rohr is content with the Super Eagles conceding first as long as victory is ultimately achieved. The German handler expressed his point of view after Nigeria’s 4-2 defeat of Lesotho in Sunday’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier. Like it happened against the Benin Republic, the Crocodiles drew first blood… November 18, 2019 In "Sports" Former Nigeria striker Odion Ighalo said his constant advice to Victor Osimhen is for him to keep working hard and improving. Ighalo called time on his international career in July following the Super Eagles' third-place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations where he was also awarded the Golden… November 19, 2019 In "Sports" Samuel Kalu on Wednesday shot Nigeria to the top of Group L of the 2021 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Benin Republic at the Godswill Akpabio  International Stadium, Uyo. November 13, 2019 In "News"