The staff and the students of the University of Benin, UniBen, and Benson Idahosa University, BIU, are to experience full provision of digitisation, storage and publication services following the signing of the agreements between the universities and Information Technology Company, Retail Development & Investment Company Limited, RDIC. RDIC is the owner of the publication engine, www.iwemi.com. According to the partners, RDIC will manage the universities’ digital assets, implement their e-Textbook programs and integration, provide library content platforms and services as well as anchor the schools’ content distribution among others. Chairman of the UniBen Public Private Committee, Professor Ikponmwosa Omoruyi, who is also the Deputy Vice Chancellor of the University, said that the partnership is aimed at driving academic excellence through the ease of access to information that digitisation provides. According to him, “Today’s event is epochal in our quest for driving academic excellence in our university. Our university’s partnership with RDIC will not only make for easy access to educational content but will boost the school’s revenue generation. “It will completely eliminate Intellectual property loss, facilitate ease of reference to specific project materials and provide global visibility of the school’s project work to multi-national companies and project financiers.” In his remarks, the Public Relations Officer of UniBen, Dr Michael Osasuyi, said that he was very optimistic about the potential of the agreement to boost the profile of UniBen. Also, the Project Director of Iwemi.com, Mr Ejimofor Akah, said: “I am delighted to be part of this partnership between the University of Benin and the RDIC. Our platform engine enables lecturers to publish their academic textbooks, teaching aids and peer-reviewed faculty journals within minutes. “Our team will also work with UniBen to scan and digitize project work submitted from 2001 till date and will also assist in preparing these records in a format that can be accessible on iwemi.com or any database,” Akah added. Vanguard Prof. Faraday Osasere Orumwense, on November 30, 2014, assumed office as the 9th Vice-Chancellor of UNIBEN. Prior to his appointment, he had over two decades of experience in university administration, the last being his appointment as pioneer Rector of Efo State owned Institute of Management and Technology, Usen. April 15, 2018 In "Viewpoint" Ecstasy has enveloped the Benson Idahosa University, Edo State, following the feat recorded by its Faculty of Law, which emerged winner at the 6th edition of the just concluded International Humanitarian Law Moot Court Competition which was held at Lagos State University, LASU, Ojo. October 19, 2016 In "News" The campaigns for who succeeds the Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Professor Osayuki Oshodin, when his tenure expires in November 2014, is creating tension in the university. The situation has led to the trivialization of Oshodin’s health, following his trip to the United Kingdom for medical treatment… August 17, 2014 In "Metro"