The Federal Government on Tuesday reviewed its health indices and returned a verdict that it had made tremendous progress in the control of diseases with the strict and rigorous vaccinations of Nigerians against challenging diseases. The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib, who gave a breakdown of the nation’s report card in health care delivery, also set a target of achieving at least 84 per cent of vaccination coverage of the entire country by the year 2028. However, the NPHCDA CEO reeled out frightening health statistics Nigeria is grappling with and promised to take appropriate measures to reverse the challenges promoting them in order to give the nation a new lease of life. According to him, Nigeria, which makes up only two per cent of the world’s population ironically accounts for 14% of the global maternal death burden; given the sad reality that one in every eight Nigerian children dies before their fifth birthday. Dr Shuaib also revealed that nearly ten per cent of newborn deaths occur in Nigeria while the country loses about 2,300 under-5s and 145 women of childbearing age daily. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Federal Government, yesterday, procured and delivered additional 120,000 doses of meningococcal vaccine for disbursement in Zamfara State as the cerebro spinal meningitis, CSM, vaccination exercise in the state entered fifth day. April 10, 2017 In "Health" The Edo State Government has concluded plans to commence the administration of the measles vaccine second dose (MCV2) for children between ages 15 to 23 months to reduce cases of infant mortality and morbidity in the state. Executive Secretary, Edo State Primary Health Care Development Agency (EDSPHCDA), Dr. Imuwahen Mbarie,… November 11, 2019 In "Health" Katsina State Government says it is targeting seven million people in the ongoing vaccination against Yellow Fever holding across the state. The vaccination followed the detection of 36 new cases mostly in Danmusa and Kankara Local Government Areas of the state. The Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaji Mannir Yakubu,… October 1, 2019 In "Health"