The Federal Government in partnership with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations are set to collaborate for implementation of new and existing policies that will improve the living conditions of older persons in Africa region. The collaboration was made this known  at a Conference on the Rights of Older Persons organized by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), and ECOWAS Parliament on Monday in Abuja. President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Special Duties, Sen. George Akume said that the older persons in the African society have always been catered for, and their opinions sought after due to the respect and dignity given to them in the society. He said that the Nigerian government has put up some major policies in its efforts toward addressing the Rights of the older persons in the country. “With Western Civilization, some of these traditional processes that bestow honour and respect on the older persons are on the decline. It is the duty of African to bring back such glory and honor to their older ones. “We cannot fold our arms and expect others to do these for us, this conference has come up to afford us the opportunity to take up some of these responsibilities. “Therefore, I urge all African countries here represented to take back to their home countries, that we need to wake up to the challenges of older persons in the region. We also need to collaborate and join efforts with other nations of the World including international communities to fight for the Rights of older persons globally.” According to him, in their efforts towards addressing the Rights of older persons, the Nigerian government has put up some measures including the Senior Citizens Act of 2018. He explained that the Act mandates all tiers of government to establish national citizens centres to provide care, training for the older ones also to harmonized its pension scheme to eliminate all hitches in pension administration. “It is important to remind ourselves as Africans that care for older persons is culturally and traditionally rooted and highly respected in African societies. “Nigeria is not an exception to this, however, modalities and approaches to these are frequently reviewed to address the current peculiar realities of civilization, the Federal Government is studying the Protocol on the African Charter on Human and Peoples Rights on the Right of older persons in Africa and this would be ratified in due course.” However, the Speaker of the ECOWAS Parliament, Moustapha Cisse-Lo, who was  represented by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Ahmed Wase said that the aim of the conference was to come up with a solution on the need to cater for the aged in the society. He urged the parliament and members of the communities to collaborate and ensure that the protocols on the issue of the aged persons were implemented. Cisse-Lo, assured that ECOWAS would give its maximum cooperation and support to the society and the people to ensure that older people gets their Rights. The President of UN General Assembly, Prof. Tijjani Muhammad-Bande said that it was critical for him to be at the occasion, because the situation needed to be given more attention because of the rising population of the older persons. He said that it was not just enough for laws to be made, but for policies to be made and implemented as it was key to improving the situation. He however, said that the UN was ready to collaborate with the African continent to ensure that the rights of older people were implemented. Vanguard The Federal Government is set to work closely with the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) and the United Nations for the introduction and implementation of new and existing policies that would improve the living conditions of older citizens in Africa. November 25, 2019 In "News" The Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, the European Union, EU and the government of Germany have put in place a new 20.4 million Euro fund security outfit for the West African region October 13, 2019 In "News" THE Economic Community of West Africa States ECOWAS,' farmers have called on African leaders to resist the pressure being put on them by the European Union to sign the Economic Partnership Agreement. The farmers group said the pressure and the strategies implemented by the EU to achieve the EPA put… November 7, 2016 In "Business"