Former President Goodluck Jonathan has expressed his disappointment at the electioneering process in the Bayelsa governorship election. The former Nigerian president stated that having observed election in different parts of the world, the attitude of everyone concerned from the officials, the voters and even journalists was a little bit disappointing. Goodluck Jonathan explained that the majority of those involved in the voting process are youths and as such, they should not point hands at the government and older generation if they don’t get value. “If an incompetent wins an election, the youths should not blame anyone but themselves for that because the majority of voters are youths. You don’t go about blaming the government and the older generation. “I got here around 8:19 am and there was nobody here; the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) ad hoc staff were not here, voters were not here, even journalists were not here save for just one person from an online medium. “In other countries where I have monitored elections, people get there 30 minutes before the election and it is part of what we include in our reports. I am a bit disappointed with what I see here,” Jonathan said. He also charged the people of Bayelsa as they go to the poll to elect a new governor to be peace-loving. Jonathan included that “If we really want good leaders, we the followers must conduct ourselves in a way that our elections will produce the kind of leaders we want. “Whatever we do in selecting who would be our president, governors, local government chairman, reflects on the society. If we elect leaders that are not competent, we cannot turnaround to blame the government.” Vanguard A train, Thurday morning, was reported to have derailed in Agege area of Lagos state. January 10, 2019 In "News" JOURNALISTS in Abuja who went to cover the commencement of the ongoing 2019 Universal Tertiary Matriculation Examination,UTME,were barred from entering examination halls to take pictures and videos of the process. April 12, 2019 In "Education" IFyou are one of those imaging and optical product enthusiasts that have been asking; “What’s new with Canon?” Well, Canon has answered. At a show that had cinematographers, film makers, videographers and media executives  present, Canon displayed its latest range of professional video and photographic tools. August 30, 2017 In "Technology"