By Dirisu Yakubu The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has berated the All Progressives Congress, APC, for allegedly sending armed thugs to invade the venue of the meeting of its leaders, including Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and the PDP candidate, Engr. Musa Wada, in Lokoja ahead of today’s governorship election in Kogi state. The party in a statement signed by its publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan alleged that several hooded thugs, armed with automatic rifles and other dangerous weapons, invaded the venue of the meeting which had Governor Makinde, Engr. Wada, his running mate, Hon. Samuel Aro, Mr Ologbondiyan, as well as other party chieftains in attendance. The statement noted that it took the resistance of the security personnel attached to Governor Makinde to save the situation, which would have turned calamitous, “as the people of Kogi who were around the venue were already poised for a stiff confrontation.” It continued: “The PDP says the APC ought to have known by now that their reliance on thugs and violence cannot thrive, as the people are ready to defend their state in this election. “The party, therefore, urges in the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu to caution the APC as well as put every measure in place to check the activities of APC thugs so as to ensure a hitch-free, transparent and credible election on Saturday. “The PDP calls on the people of Kogi State to remain alert and resolute in their determination to assert their will despite the machinations designed to undermine their spirit at the election.” Vanguard FOUR days to the gubernatorial and House of Assembly election, some opposition parties have agreed to form an alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party against the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, Chief Adebayo Adelabu. March 5, 2019 In "News" The convoy of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate, Engr. Musa Wada was on Saturday ambushed at Anyigba in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. Wada was on his way to Kogi East PDP stakeholders’ meeting when the incident happened. In a statement issued by the Deputy Director of… October 20, 2019 In "News" THE South West Chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party yesterday warned the ruling All Progressives Congress in Oyo State to stop the unnecessary attack on the governor-elect,  Seyi Makinde. May 4, 2019 In "News"