AHEAD the 2020 governorship election in Edo State, a faction of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State under the aegis of PDP Integrity Group has suspended former Foreign Affairs Minister, Chief Tom Ikimi, former Chief of Staff to the President, Chief Mike Oghiadohme, former Minister of Works, Arch. Mike Onolememen from the party over alleged anti-party activities. Also suspended were Chief Raymond Dokpesi, Senator Yisa Braimoh, Senator Victor Oyofo and the former leader of the House of Representatives, Tunde Akogun. The decision to suspend them was contained in a communique signed by former Chairman, Nigeria Football  Association, Emperor Jarret Tenebe and former two-time chairman,  Owan West Government Area, Dan Asekhema after a stakeholders meeting which held in Benin City weekend. The meeting was attended by PDP leaders across the 18 Local Government Area of the state. The communique passed a vote of confidence on the Chief Dan Orbih led PDP in Edo State, adding that the Exco and the ones in the 18 LGAs will be given six months extension to enable them to conduct the governorship primaries. “We the Edo PDP integrity Group also announced the adoption of former governor of the state,  Chief Lucky Igbinedion as the leader of our party in Edo State”. On why some of the leaders were suspended, the communique explained that “Chief Oghiadohme was seen when he flew a helicopter with governor Godwin Obaseki last weekend to attend the convocation ceremony of the Edo University Iyamho last weekend. “He even displayed the sign 4+4, endorsing Obaseki when We have our own PDP aspirants. Chief Ikimi and others have been holding clandestine meetings with Governor Obaseki where we learnt reliably that the governor was asked to bring N6bilion so he can join PDP and take the ticket. “We are also aware that they have been meeting with the state chairman of the APC, Anselm Ojezua with a view to perfecting this plan. We believe as a party we must instil discipline because it is because of the cash and carry politics some people played in the past they led to the problem of PDP in Edo State. “As we move towards 2019 governorship election, we urge our aspirants to disregard the activities of greedy politicians and continue their campaigns. We will fight indiscipline in the PDP no matter whose ox is gored” it stated. Vanguard As Edo State politicians prepare for the 2015 general elections, what is obviously in their minds in the big one which is the governorship election that comes up in 2016. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, buoyed by the recent victory of the PDP in Ekiti State, had… August 24, 2014 In "Politics" In an apparent move to reclaim its lost relevance in the politics of Edo state ahead of the the scheduled 2016 governorship polls, the intra-party wrangling within the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) may have further widened with the recent emergence of three groups, all said to be united against Chief… September 12, 2015 In "News" IT was a gathering of who is who in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Edo State at the residence of former governor of the state, Lucky Igbinedion where the party assessed its position ahead of the 2020 governorship election and the position of the state chairman of the party… October 7, 2019 In "News"