RIGHTEOUSNESS is the act of being just or acting in a moral way so as to distinct between right and wrong. Many people, religious leaders and those at the helm of affairs in this country believe their actions and deeds in the course of discharging their duties/responsibilities are just. But most of these if not all are for their selfish interest. Some religious leaders orientate their followers to discriminately avoid relating with followers of another religion denomination of the bases of mode of worship and tenets of the church. Imagine some Christians do not see anything good in white garment churches. Meanwhile the Holy Bible does not condemn it instead justifies the need for followers of Jesus Christ to wear white garment. Revelation 7:13-17. Some Christian leaders preach against vision, prophecy and taking of drugs (medication). They believe any Christian that does any of these is an unbeliever. Christian brothers or sisters cannot eat or drink with fellow Christians. Is that righteous? Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed who were the bases for the establishment of Christianity and Islam universally taught and preached to their followers the spirit of love. But today most religious leaders saddle with the responsibility of propagating these two religions have failed to practice the teachings of these two great leaders any longer. Imagine, Muslim brothers killing one another and non Muslims with the belief that they are doing it for God. Can you fight for God? A Muslim friend told me that Muslims can pray anywhere they go and peace be unto them there. Then why are some Muslims maiming, killing people everywhere, is this righteousness? It is pertinent that both the Christians and Muslims preach love and peace, allow peace to reign in this country particularly in the world in general. There is no need to be killing one another because we came from the same God. The world has been transformed from the primitive ways of living in the early days of world’s existence to a better, civilized and modernized ways of living. Both Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed rode on donkeys, lived in caves, excreting in bushes but now religious leaders ride posh cars and jeep and living in mansions and beautiful houses. Why can’t they brought about positive changes to the ways of serving God and relating with others. Some religious leaders tell their followers or members not to commit adultery but they commit adultery even with their female members. In our country, government officials be it political office holders, civil servants and judiciary are not righteous in discharging their duties and responsibilities. Imagine the Police pension scam, a judge of high court discharged and acquitted an ex-governor of the charges of fraud, embezzlement and later for the ex-governor to plead guilty to the same charges in UK. Is the judge a righteous person? A Policeman of the checkpoint takes bribe from commercial bus driver, if caught he be reprimanded but Top Senior Police Officer are involved in mismanagement of police fund they walking freely, is this righteousness? Some Custom officers seize smuggle goods of ordinary citizen but some officers will escort a trailer load of rice or illegal goods into the country without being arrested. Finally, my appeal and advice to religious leaders, people in authority all and sundry is that we should take to the path of righteousness so that we can be blessed and favoured by God Psalm 5:12. A righteous person cannot be forsaken and his or her children beg for bread. Psalm 37:25. Vanguard Righteousness is the act of being just or acting in a moral way. April 28, 2019 In "Worship" MINISTERIAL ethics are the standards, principles, and broad guidelines that Christian leaders must observe, as ethical practices are upright, honorable, moral, lawful, above-board, and full of integrity. In view of the above, the conduct and lifestyle of modern-day Christian leaders must be defined . But, in this end time when… August 10, 2015 In "The Arts" AT a church event, a then serving president said that he honoured the church’s invitation because the pastor of the church routinely prayed for him and e-mailed him the transcript of the prayers. December 21, 2015 In "Viewpoint"