PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Lawan on Tuesday during plenary,  decried what he described as a noisy chamber. Lawan spoke while responding to a point of order raised by Senator  George Sekibo (Rivers East) who had noted that  the chamber was noisy. Senator Sekibo came under Order 56( 9 and 10) of the Senate Standing Orders as Amended. Sekibo said, “the chamber is too noisy.” The Senate President, Lawan, however, ruled that Sekibo was in order. “The chamber is noisy,” Lawan said while urging the senators to maintain decorum at the ongoing plenary. Recall that President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan had last week in the middle of the plenary, cried out the excessive heat at the hallowed Chamber was suffocating them as Senators. President of the Senate who had  lamented that there was excessive heat at the hallowed Chamber, later directed the Clerk to the Senate, Nelson Ayewor  to immediately ensure that the cooling system of the chambers was put in order. The instruction was for the Chamber and not the Senate Press Centre. It was gathered that the heat was caused by malfunctioning of the cooling system in the chambers. Lawan had  said, “This chamber appears unduly warm this morning. We can’t be battling with debate and fanning ourselves. I want to appeal to our colleagues to be patient as the fault would be fixed soonest.” Vanguard PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan , Tuesday in the middle of the plenary, cried out the excessive heat at the hallowed Chamber was suffocating them as Senators. November 12, 2019 In "News" ABUJA - PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan yesterday in the middle of the plenary, cried out the excessive heat at the hallowed Chamber was suffocating them as Senators. November 12, 2019 In "News" By Henry Umoru ABUJA-SENATORS loyal to Senator Ahmed Lawan operating under the aegis, Senators' Unity Forum, SUF have threatened to disrupt the activities of the red Chambers when the lawmakers resume plenary if Senate President Bukola Saraki fails to reverse the appointment of the principal officers The group has also… July 18, 2015 In "News"