The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has urged Muslims to emulate the good morals, and teachings of tolerance of Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W). In a statement, Obaseki urged Muslim faithful to continue to show love and good neighbourliness espoused in Islam as they celebrate the birth of Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W). Obaseki urged them to commit themselves to the teachings of the prophet not just as a matter of religious obligation but a means to promote peaceful living in a multicultural society. According to Obaseki, “I felicitate with our Muslim brothers and sisters in Edo State and across Nigeria on this day set aside to celebrate the birthday of the Holy Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W).” He added, “This occasion, once again, reminds us all of the virtues of the Prophet, which we should emulate in advancing love, peace and progress of the state and country. Muslims constitute a major force for peace and progress wherever they may be, and we are glad that our Muslim brothers and sisters have been an integral part of our march to development in Edo State.” He encouraged Muslims to continue to eschew acts and behaviours that undermine the unity and progress of the society, just as the Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W) would, urging them to be good neighbours and enviable ambassadors of change. The governor, however, expressed appreciation to Muslims for supporting his administration’s policies and programmes aimed at building a total society in Edo. Vanguard As Muslims mark the Eid-El-Maulud celebration, the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki has urged them to reflect on and emulate the good nature, show love, and imbibe teachings of tolerance of Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W). December 1, 2017 In "News" The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, has extended felicitation to Muslim faithful in Edo State and across the country as they commemorate the birthday of the Holy Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W). November 21, 2018 In "News" The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, urged Muslims to emulate Prophet Muhammad’s teachings, which border on charity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence. Obasa, who is also the Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, made the call on Saturday, as Muslims the world over get… November 9, 2019 In "News"