Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc (SEPLAT), operator of the NNPC/SEPLAT Joint Venture, has brought succour to community members of its areas of operation and to other indigenes of Imo State, as it holds  the 2019 edition of its Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood programmes, the company’s signature Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) health programmes. Speaking at the opening ceremony  which took place on September 19th at the Medical Health Centre at Izombe, Imo State, the wife of the Imo state governor, Lady Ebere Ihedioha who flagged the medical outreach open said: “If all the corporate organisations were to tow this route of SEPLAT petroleum today, the burden of underdevelopment and social restlessness particularly in the oil producing areas in the state would be greatly reduced. This programme  therefore places SEPLAT Petroleum at the top of the Corporate Social Responsibility in the state, and by extension has won the hearts of our people.” In the company’s response,  Dr. Chioma Nwachuku, General Manager, External Affairs and Communications, representing Mr. Austin Avuru, the Chief Executive Officer of Seplat, said: “People are at the centre of everything we do. The NNPC/SEPLAT joint venture takes delight whenever we have opportunity to deploy these two key programmes specially designed for the wellbeing of our community members and for other indigenes of the state who wish to access the benefits of these health progrommes.” Through the Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood initiatives, Seplat has provided premium health care in line with its commitment to ensuring the wellbeing of people living in its host communities. The company began in  2017 to run these programmes annually in these communities. The Eye Can See initiative has brought community dwellers face to face with specialist optometrists. Within the two year period, a total of 7,343 patients have benefitted from the initiative, 2,200 reading glasses have been given to patients while over 233 successful eye surgeries have been conducted. Vanguard Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, operator of the NNPC/SEPLAT Joint Venture launched the inaugural edition of its Eye Can See and Safe Motherhood signature Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmes for communities situated in the operational area of its Eastern Assets at Izombe, Imo State, on Friday, February 9, 2018. The… February 13, 2018 In "Energy" It is no longer news that businesses cannot prosper in a world plagued with poverty, inequality, violence and environmental stress. According to business tycoons, for companies to excel, they must align themselves with the global development priorities and ensure they fuel and catalyse the global efforts towards achieving Sustainable Development… October 3, 2019 In "Health" It is not very clear if many Nigerians know that the Chairman and Founder of Seplat Petroleum Development Company PLC, Dr. Ambrose Bryant Chukwueloka Orjiako, is a trained Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgeon. September 28, 2019 In "News"