The Holy Father, Pope Francis on Saturday officially announced the retirement of His Eminence, John Cardinal Onaiyekan as the Archbishop of Abuja Dioceses. This was made known through a telephone interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), by Mr Josef Ishu, department of Communications, Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja. According to the letter from Rome, Pope Francis appointed Archbishop Ignatius Kaigama as the new Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Abuja after the announcement of the retirement of John Cardinal Onaiyekan. Ishu, however, noted that the date for the installation of the new Archbishop would be communicated in due time. Kaigama was the Archbishop of Jos from 2000 to 2019, when he became first Archbishop Coadjutor and then Archbishop of Abuja. Speaking also in a Telephone interview with His Eminence, John Cardinal Onaiyekan, who confirmed his retirement, noted that it was long over due. Onaiyekan said that it was time for transition and time for a new leader to come and continue where he had stopped. John Olorunfemi Onaiyekan was born 29 January, 1944; he is a Nigerian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was Archbishop of Abuja from 1994 to 2019 and was made a Cardinal in 2012. The cleric has served as President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, President of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria and Bishop of Ilorin. Vanguard News Nigeria. Pope Francis has laid down an ultimatum to defiant Nigerian priests saying that they will lose their jobs if you don't obey him and their bishop. June 11, 2017 In "News" WO weeks after the expiration of papal directive to Catholic priests in Ahiara Mbaise Diocese to write individual letters of apology to the Catholic Pontiff or risk suspension, there is no clear indication if all the priests had complied with the directive and what action Pope Francis, who was visibly… July 22, 2017 In "News" Pope Francis has intervened in an ethnic crisis involving the Nigerian town of Ahiara, Imo state , whose bishop, Peter Ebere Okpaleke, appointed by Benedict XVI in 2012, is unwanted by lay people and priests of the diocese. June 9, 2017 In "News"