Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar on Sunday urged Muslims to use religion as a vehicle for the promotion of love, unity and understanding in the country. Abubakar made the call in a statement issued by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe in Abuja in a message to mark Eid-el-Maulud in remembrance of the birth of Prophet Muhammad. Abubakar said that religious tolerance was a prerequisite for a stable and peaceful country. He added that religious leaders should use their positions of influence to spread love, tolerance and respect for others who were different. “Given our ethnic, cultural and religious diversity in the country, our religious leaders should at all times be alert to any threat to peace on account of incendiary utterances in the name of preaching,” he said. Abubakar, who was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential Candidate in the February elections, said that peace and tolerance were essential for practising our individual faith happily. “Prophet Muhammad was a paragon of peace, humility and justice for all, and as we honour him on this great occasion, let us follow his examples in words and actions,” he said. The former vice-president also called on Muslim leaders to work hard to fight religious bigotry which according to him has been responsible for planting the seeds of hate and violence in the country. Vanguard ABUJA — As Muslims celebrate the birth of Prophet Muhammed today, President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki and the Sultan of Sokoto have called for more understanding, unity and love among Nigerians to move the nation forward. December 24, 2015 In "News" Goodluck Jonathan yesterday predicted that Nigeria will make quicker progress towards the fulfilment of its great potentials as a nation if its citizens foster peace, security and stability. November 16, 2010 In "News" AS Nigerians joined the rest of the world to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Fitr, governors, clerics and political leaders have called on Muslims to replicate the lessons of the Ramadan in their lives while calling for  peace and national cohesion Nigerians have also been advised to continue to promote unity, love,… June 16, 2018 In "News"