Big Brother Naija 2019 winner and media darling, Mercy Eke may have just started living the life of a celebrity, but has come out on social media, to say she needs her old life back, because according to her, living the life of a celebrity is depriving her of the freedom to do whatever she wants. Speaking on a live video on Instablog9ja that was monitored by celebrity diary, the reality show star maintained that she really wanted her old life back. She said she wants to go back to the time when she can sleep and wake up whenever she wants without disturbance. As the winner of BBNaija 2019 and a celebrity under a management team, Mercy Eke noted that she now has a calendar which she is obligated to follow accordingly. According to Mercy, she doesn’t own herself anymore. She said her life looks rosy on social media, but in real life, it isn’t. “My life may look rosy on social media but I am really not living the life of freedom. I have a calendar that I am obligated to follow accordingly and this has really deprived me of the freedom to live life the way I want” She lamented. Celebrity Diary sure hopes Mercy starts enjoying the opportunities attached to being a celebrity. VANGUARD Mercy Eke, known widely as ‘Mercy Lambo, Queen of Highlights’ has made history as the first woman to be crowned the winner of the Big Brother Naija in its 4th  edition. This couldn’t have been possible without the Imo State-born Housemate storming the House with some sort of a plan. October 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" The recently concluded BBNaija Season 4 winner, Mercy has on Tuesday been presented a IVM Innoson SUV. During the presentation of the SUV, Innoson IVM announced Mercy as the ambassador of Innoson brand. "[Mercy] automatically today becomes our brand ambassador "She will enjoy the vehicle in a way she will… October 9, 2019 In "Entertainment" The recently concluded BBNaija Season 4 winner, Mercy has on Tuesday been presented a IVM Innoson SUV. During the presentation of the SUV, Innoson IVM announced Mercy as the ambassador of Innoson brand. "[Mercy] automatically today becomes our brand ambassador "She will enjoy the vehicle in a way she will… October 8, 2019 In "Entertainment"