BMW X7 Sports Activity Vehicle (SAV) was introduced into the Nigerian market barely a month ago, thereby bringing the number of BMW X models in Nigeria to five. Before the launch of the BMW X7, which is the largest BMW Sport Utility Vehicle created by the German luxury auto maker, there were other BMW X models like X3, X4, X5 and X6, but the X7 has launched the BMW family into an entirely new market segment, the large SUV segment. As the flagship of the BMW X family, the X7 has special attributes with its majestic appearance. From a distance, it could be mistaken for the Rolls-Royce SUV,  the Cullinan, but the X7 has a unique identity with the BMW kidney grill. So what made the BMW X7 special? The X7 is the first BMW with third row of seat and the largest BMW SUV ever built. Available with a choice of two petrol engines, the all new X7 delivers a benchmark performance in its class. The two versions are the xDrive 50i with an extensive updated 4.4-litre V8 engine and the xDrive 40i with 3.0 litre six-cylinder engine. The top of the range engine, the eight-cylinder power-plant in the BMW X7 xDrive 50i is a blend of power delivery and signature V8 soundtrack. This engine’s peak torque of 479 Ib-ft is available over a broad rev range from 1,500 to 4,750rmp while its maximum output of 456hp is on tap between 5250 and 6000rpm. It can accelerate from 0 to 60 mph in just 5.2 seconds. The six-cylinder engine in the BMW X7 xDrive 40i is also fast and frugal. It employs a single twin scroll turbocharger and direct injection technology whose maximum pressure of 5076 psi ensures the fuel is delivered in extreme precised doses. This engine generates maximum output of 335 horsepower between 5500 and 6500 rpm, while the peak torque 330ib-ft is available from 1500 5,200rpm. The xDrive40i accelerates from 0 to 60mph in 5.8 seconds. The X7 engine variants are linked to eight-speed steptronic transmission for ride comfort. The X7 is a very capable sport utility vehicle, though BMW prefers to call it a Sport Activity Vehicle (SAV). It takes every terrain without looking back. The task of maximising traction, agility and directional stability in the new X7 falls to the latest generation of the BMW xDrive intelligent-drive system which is now able to split drive-torque between the front and rear wheels with even greater precision and speed as the situation demands. For added efficiency, full power can be directed completely to the rear wheels in situations where all-wheel drive traction is not required. The xDrive system offers a rear-biased set-up for those occasions when the driver choses to adopt a mere sporting style of driving. Comfort has been taken to the highest level with the right chassis and suspension in the X7. The design of the now chassis, based on a double-wishbone front suspension and a five-link rear suspension provides the best of balance of exceptional traction on rough terrain and excellent dynamic response and ride comfort on pavement. The X7 comes with the dynamic damper that sharpens the cars handling while at the same time increasing ride comfort. The driver can select two performance settings for more comfort-oriented or sportier driving style. The X7 is loaded with features like never before. They are two numerous to list here but a visit to BMW showroom in Lekki or Victoria Island will expose the X7 more to its admirers. It is simply a symbol of luxury. Vanguard BMW has taken the Sports Utility Vehicle segment to the next level with the introduction of the all new BMW X7. The large SUV from BMW which it choses to address as Sports Activity Vehicle would give the Range Rover Autobiography a good run in the premium luxury sports utility… September 20, 2019 In "Motoring" By Theodore Opara COSCHARIS Motors, representatives of BMW in Nigeria made history recently when it unveiled two high-end BMW cars, sedan and Sport Activity Vehicle at the same time. The venue was Banana Island luxury estate, Ikoyi, Lagos, which is regarded as one of the most expensive estates in Africa.… October 4, 2019 In "Motoring" Coscharis Motors has unveiled the all new BMW X6 Sport Activity vehicle SAV into the market. The BMW X6, the world’s first Sport Activity Coupe was unveiled to the admiration of BMW customers in Nigeria at the Oriental Hotel, Lagos on Sunday. June 30, 2015 In "Motoring"