Netherlands captain Virgil van Dijk has withdrawn from the squad for Tuesday’s Euro 2020 qualifier against Estonia for personal reasons. The 28-year-old Liverpool defender played the full 90 minutes against Northern Ireland on Friday as the Oranje secured their place at next summer’s tournament, their first major finals since 2014, courtesy of a goalless draw in Belfast. However, Van Dijk will play no part when the Netherlands wrap up their qualifying campaign in Amsterdam on Tuesday. National team coach Ronald Koeman cannot call on VirgiI van Dijk on Tuesday against Estonia,” read a Netherlands statement. “Van Dijk has to miss the game due to personal circumstances and has since left the Oranje training camp.” The Netherlands were far from their fluid best in Belfast and were fortunate to go in at half-time with the game still goalless when Northern Ireland captain Steven Davis blasted a penalty over the crossbar. The visitors improved in the second half and enjoyed the bulk of the possession, but struggled to create many clear-cut chances. Koeman admitted his side could have played better but stressed getting the point they needed to secure qualification was the most important thing, admitting he was playing for the draw in the closing stages. “I am happy and proud of the team,” he told Dutch broadcadter NOS. “In the end they only had two moments. I think we should have done more offensively, but we have reached the point that was needed for qualification and that is the most important thing. “In the last few minutes I really opted for the 0-0, so I also brought on an extra defender with (Nathan) Ake Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Liverpool centre-back Virgil van Dijk has beaten Manchester City’s Raheem Sterling to win PFA Players’ Player of the Year, according to reports. The Netherlands international was on a six-man shortlist which included Sterling, Sadio Mane, Eden Hazard, Sergio Aguero, and Bernardo Silva. Van Dijk and Sterling were the two favourites… April 24, 2019 In "News" Portugal's meeting with the Netherlands to decide the first ever winners of the Nations League on Sunday sees the unstoppable force of Cristiano Ronaldo face the immovable object in Virgil van Dijk. June 8, 2019 In "News" Liverpool centre-back Virgil van Dijk was named as England's PFA Player of the Year for 2019 on Sunday. April 29, 2019 In "News"