The Inclusive Forum for Accountable Society (IFAS) has called on Kogi Government to declare state of emergency in the education sector of the state in view of the level of dilapidation and decay. IFAS, an initiative of ActionAid Nigeria and its implementing partners, Participation Initiative for Behavioural Change In Development (PIBCID) made the call at its quarterly meeting on Saturday in Lokoja. The members, who expressed concern over the state of primary and secondary education in the state, said the situation demanded the declaration of a state of emergency. Hamza Aliyu, chairman of the forum and Executive Director, Initiative for Grassroots Advancement (INGRA) said the discussion centred on the education because the future of Kogi was at stake in view of the present situation of the sector. “The problem is the quality of education and the quantum of resources put into education as well as the legal framework and evaluation system,” he said. Aliyu also noted that the public sector screening embarked upon by the Gov. Yahaya Bello’s “New Direction” government had an adverse impact on the teachers. He said that a lot them affected by the screening exercise as a result of one problem or the other were removed, resulting in dearth of teachers, especially among schools in rural communities. “There is a lacuna here and that gap is affecting the quality of education; our children are getting at community level,” he said. Earlier in her opening speech, Halima Sadiq, Actionaid Nigeria Project Manager and acting Executive Director, (PIBCID), said the state government’s annual budgetary allocations to education did not show any political will to improve the quality. Sadiq said: ”The issue of education is a very serious one. It is a known fact that ignorance breeds and remains one of the drivers of violence and we believe education is the cure. She regretted that the state of public schools in most of the communities did not portray education as such. The PIBCID acting Executive Director, therefore, called on the state government to do the needful and declare a state of emergency in the state’s education sector. Me John Amabi, a member of the forum noted that primary and secondary education lost the grip with the introduction of the screening and therefore, urged Bello, in the new dispensation, to address the issue. Mr Sanni Mohammed, Director Budget, Budget Office hinted that there had always been adequate budgetary provision for the education sector but the problem was that of the release of the allocation for intended purposes. Vanguard News Nigeria. Governor Yahaya Bello has reiterated his determination to reposition education in the State and use the sector to drive the socio-economic renaissance of the State. October 20, 2016 In "News" Over 7,000 teachers in public primary and junior secondary schools in Kogi State have appealed to Gov. Yahaya Bello to look into the issue of non-payment of their salary for the past eight to 39 months. The Kogi teachers made the appeal in a communique issued at the end an… September 23, 2019 In "Education" Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state has said the All Progressives Congress, APC, came to power during the 'worst' and difficult period in the history of the country, however said with cooperation and resilience of the people, the situation was surmountable. May 29, 2016 In "News"