Former Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Elder Godsday Orubebe, has denied having any beef with elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, over an abandoned project for which money had been paid when he was in office.
Orubebe, who was reacting to an online store to that effect, made it clear that he had never fallen out with the revered Niger Delta and South-South leader over any issue and attributed the story to those he described as ‘mischief-makers with a warning to them to stop such antics forthwith. In a statement made available to Vanguard on Monday, Orubebe denied ever castigating Chief Clark over any contract or any other matter, pointing out that the former Information Minister was like a father to him.
Orubebe said: “I completely dissociate myself from that publication because it never came from me and it is the imagination of mischief-makers. “There was a time, these same mischief makers tried to bring a wedge between me and my father, Chief Edwin Clark. They failed woefully. For reasons best known to them, they want to try again. But just as they failed in the past, they have failed again. “I unequivocally reiterate that Chief Edwin Clark is a proud son of Niger Delta, a revered leader of the Ijaw Nation and a father to many including myself. He is a forthright elder statesman who has contributed immensely towards the emancipation of the Niger Delta in particular and Nigeria as a whole.
“I hold Chief Clark in the highest esteem and no matter what the mischief-makers do, they cannot separate me and my father, Chief Edwin Clark,” Orubebe declared.
Vanguard UNTIL lately, the Minister of Niger-Delta, Elder Godsday Orubebe, was a member of the political family of the South-South leader, Chief Edwin Clark, in their native Delta State. Both are from the Ijaw ethnic nationality in the South Senatorial District. While Clark hails from Kiagbodo, Orubebe is from Ogbobagbene, both… May 11, 2013 In "Special Report" By Emma Amaize Elder Statesman and former Federal Commissioner for Information, Chief Edwin Clark, and his estranged political son, former Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Elder Godsday Orubebe, are at daggers drawn over an allegation by Orubebe that Clark supposedly collected money and abandoned some projects, which contracts were awarded… November 17, 2019 In "News" WARRI—South-South leader, Chief Edwin Clark, Tuesday, lashed out at Minister of Niger Delta, Elder Godsday Orubebe, accusing him of disobeying and embarrassing President Goodluck Jonathan with his bloated ambition to take over from Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan of Delta State in 2015. May 8, 2013 In "News"