A brilliant night in Belgrade. #FKCZ 0-4 #THFC  pic.twitter.com/uNcsNeIOvM — Tottenham Hotspur (@SpursOfficial) November 6, 2019  Son Heung-min scored twice as Tottenham beat Red Star Belgrade 4-0 on Wednesday to end their barren away run and close in on a place in the last 16 of the Champions League. Tottenham kick-started their Group B campaign with a 5-0 triumph when the sides met in London two weeks ago and were again comfortable winners at Rajko Mitic Stadium on Wednesday. Giovani Lo Celso’s maiden goal for the club was added to by a second-half double from Son, who started for Tottenham just three days on from being left distraught by a challenge that preceded Andre Gomes’ horrific injury in the 1-1 Premier League draw with Everton. A late fourth was provided by Christian Eriksen as Tottenham won away for the first time since May 8 to move four points ahead of their opponents with two games to play. Paulo Gazzaniga denied Milan Pavkov with his outstretched leg and that proved to be an important save as Tottenham were ahead 11 minutes later. A crazy scramble saw Harry Kane’s toe-poke hit the post, Son’s follow up blocked on the line and Kane’s next shot turned against the crossbar by Son from a few yards out, but Lo Celso controlled the loose ball and fired home. Tottenham survived another scare before half-time as Gazzaniga tipped Rajiv van La Parra’s drive onto the post and Davinson Sanchez inadvertently diverted the ball onto the crossbar in the ensuing melee. However, Mauricio Pochettino’s side soon took control of the match and added a third on the counter 12 minutes into the second half through Son’s powerful strike past Milan Borjan at his near post. Son, whose red card for the foul on Gomes last weekend was rescinded on Tuesday, doubled his personal tally three minutes later when turning in Danny Rose’s cross from Tottenham’s left. Eriksen rounded off the scoring five minutes from time, the substitute holding off his marker before beating Borjan with the aid of a deflection. Vanguard News Unai Emery hailed Arsenal's explosive 4-2 win over bitter rivals Tottenham as a statement of intent from his revitalised side. December 2, 2018 In "News" Son Heung-min and Harry Kane combined to ease Tottenham's troubles by scoring twice each in a 5-0 win over Red Star Belgrade and put their Champions League campaign back on track on Tuesday. Last season's finalists were thrashed 7-2 at home by Bayern Munich in their previous European outing and… October 22, 2019 In "News" Ajax beat Tottenham 1-0 in the Champions League semi-final first leg on Tuesday. April 30, 2019 In "Sports"