Prof. Dolapo Lufadeju, the National Coordinator, Rotary International Project on National Family Planning Campaign, says Nigeria is losing 68,000 women yearly as a result of pregnancy and childbirth complications. Lufadeju disclosed this on Thursday during the South West Family Planning Campaign Project of Rotary International in Ibadan. He said the figure represented 23 per cent of the global deaths due to pregnancy and childbirth complications. “This implies that for every five women that die as a result of pregnancy and childbirth, one is a Nigerian and this is scary and Rotary International is upset about it. “Rotary International has been an organisation with a national network of volunteers to be able to mobilise and create awareness in communities, will do community dialogue and training among others to reduce maternal and childbirth mortality. “We are in South West of the meeting to bring stakeholders together to plan and strategise on steps to be taken in the next three years in order to reduce maternal and child birth-death, “he said. Lufadeju also said that Rotary International was partnering with the Society of Gynaecologists and Obstetrics of Nigeria (SOGON) and Ministry of Health to achieve its objective. “We will deploy the zeal and commitment and with Rotary standard, we are going to innovate and propose a solution to the challenges. “We are going to do advocacy in the community with traditional rulers, political leaders, religious leaders as well as train doctors among others. “Our aim is to reduce maternal deaths and everyone has to know that the issue concerns us all,” Lufadeju said. Mr Olugbemiga Olowu, South West Coordinator of the project, and  Dr Adebayo Adeniyi, SOGON Coordinator in Ekiti, said in separate remarks that they were committed to ensuring that the family planning project was being executed smoothly. According to the duo, available data indicates that Nigeria has very low prevalence care for family planning which Rotary will address. Vanguard ROTARY International, a non-profit organisation, has commenced intervention in 54 secondary hospitals in Enugu state that will improve Maternal and Child Healthcare, MCH, in the area. July 27, 2018 In "News" WITH about 500,000 Nigerian women living with obstetric fistula, women need to avail themselves of regular medical check up to prevent health complications, including fistula, that could lead to the death of mothers. May 31, 2018 In "Woman" With 21 children, Mustafa says, had he learnt about family planning and its benefits earlier, he would have had fewer. His oldest child is 33 years and the youngest is nine. August 16, 2019 In "News"