The United Kingdom, UK lorry driver earlier reported by Vanguard to have been charged with manslaughter over the deaths of 39 Vietnamese migrants whose bodies were found in the back of a vehicle he had allegedly been driving pleaded guilty on Monday to lesser charges. Maurice Robinson, who is accused of being part of an international people-smuggling ring, admitted plotting with others to assist illegal immigration and acquiring criminal property. Robinson, 25, appeared at London’s Central Criminal Court by video link from prison. He wasn’t asked to enter pleas to 39 counts of manslaughter and conspiracy to traffic people, and he faces another court hearing on Dec. 13. The bodies of 39 people were found Oct. 23 in the English town of Grays, east of London inside the UK lorry. Police say the victims were all from Vietnam and were aged between 15 and 44. The 31 men and eight women are believed to have paid people traffickers for their clandestine transit into England. Prosecutors allege that Robinson drove the cab of the truck to Purfleet, England, where he picked up the container, which had arrived by ferry from Zeebrugge in Belgium. Two other men have been arrested in Britain and Ireland in connection with the case, and several people have been arrested in Vietnam. Vanguard News Nigeria. The UK's lorry driver inside which 39 people were found dead claimed that he was transporting biscuit and has no idea of the content of the lorry. Contrary to the publicised cause of death, the victims did not die by being frozen to death but instead, they were suffocated. According… October 29, 2019 In "Foreign" The driver of the Essex, United Kingdom lorry trailer inside which 39 people were found dead has been charged with 39 counts of manslaughter and conspiracy to traffic people, Essex police have said. The 25-year-old, Mo Robinson reportedly from Northern Ireland was arrested early on Wednesday morning after police were… October 26, 2019 In "Foreign" Police officers in the United Kingdom are continuing to question four suspects over the deaths of 39 people whose bodies were found inside a lorry in Essex. A man was detained at Stansted Airport on Friday on suspicion of manslaughter and conspiracy to traffic people. A couple from Warrington were… October 26, 2019 In "News"