Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr has praised the attitude of his side after coming from behind to claim a 2-1 victory against the Republic of Benin in Wednesday’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying game. Stephane Sessegnon gave the Squirrels the lead two minutes into the match before the Super Eagles rallied back with goals from Victor Osimhen and Samuel Kalu. Rohr was impressed with the performance of his side in the encounter and lauded the competition in his squad. “The Benin Republic are good team, we knew what they did in the Afcon but our attitude was good,” Rohr said in a press conference. “I’m happy with the result, to come back and win. Good to see competitions among the players.” The German tactician has also praised the hospitality received by the three-time African champions in the capital of Akwa Ibom. “We are good everywhere in Nigeria, we had good hospitality in Asaba. But it feels good to be back in Uyo,” he added.
Victory against Benin ensured the Super Eagles top Group L with three points from one game after Lesotho and Sierra Leone played out a 1-1 draw at the Siaka Stevens Stadium. Nigeria will travel to Setsoto Stadium to slug it out with the Crocodiles in their second match in the qualifiers on Sunday. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Super Eagles’ head coach Gernot Rohr on Wednesday said winning the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) for Nigeria would make him the most excited person. November 13, 2019 In "News" Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has described the international friendly match against Brazil as an ‘important test’ for his team after their third-place finish at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. Sunday’s game will be the Super Eagles’ second game since they defeated Tunisia 1-0 to win bronze in the continental tournament in Egypt back in July. They settled… October 13, 2019 In "Sports" The memorable tenure of Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr seems to have suddenly gone sour in the mouths of many Nigerians, who are calling for his sack, following the national team’s bronze-winning efforts at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, AFCON in Egypt. The anger in those who want him… July 20, 2019 In "News"