Financial Technology (Fintechs) companies in Nigeria have so far attracted over $400 million investment in 2019 reflecting increased confidence in the bourgeoning segment of the financial system. Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele disclosed this while speaking yesterday in Lagos at the 2019 Annual Bankers Dinner Night of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN). Emefiele noted that the investment injected into the Fintechs reflects the positive impact of policy measures to boost financial inclusion in the country. He said: “In an effort to build a more inclusive financial system and to improve the efficacy of monetary policy tools, we provided super-agent licenses as well as three Payment Service Bank licenses to telecommunications and FinTech companies. These measures are aiding in the development of robust payment infrastructure and an expansion of agent locations across the country. As a result of our policy measures, in 2019, over $400m have been invested in FinTech companies, focused on supporting improved payment services in Nigeria. With the entrance of new players into the payment services market and the strengthening of our financial networks, a growing number of underserved Nigerians have access to cost-effective banking services. Vanguard Central to the growth of every economy is proper management of funds and transparency, especially on the part of the government. Nigeria’s notoriety in this regard brought the country to the state of near-economic-collapse, but for the timely introduction of new policies that have salvaged the situation and helped the… July 28, 2017 In "Viewpoint" It is the 21st century and it is time for a digital revolution towards the new economy. Nigeria is far behind the developed world, but technology can help us in catching up, just like it helped China, writes Chidi Alabi September 26, 2018 In "News" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is currently drafting guidelines that would enable the regulation and supervision of the activities of Financial Technology Companies (FinTechs) in Nigeria. June 29, 2018 In "Business"