The new Commissioner for Local Government Affairs in Enugu State, Barrister Peter Okonkwo, said his ministry, under the watch of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, is poised to re-focus the primary assignment of the Local Government administration in the state in order to make it more formidable and impactful on the lives of the rural dwellers. Barr Okonkwo added that his ministry, which is saddled with the responsibility of supervising the activities of the local government councils, is focused on ensuring that every council in the state actualizes tangible development projects that would stand the test of time. The commissioner stated that the issue of the council chairmen executing capital projects on the ground that will be enduring and outlive them is sacrosanct in this second term of Gov Ugwuanyi’s administration in line with its rural development agenda. He disclosed that the local government system will pay more attention to primary healthcare delivery, as the custodian of the people in the rural areas, to ensure that the lofty visions of the state government in the health sector, such as the Universal Health Coverage, are fully actualised for the benefit of the masses. “Our principal agenda is to create a stronger synergy so that there will be a more effective relationship between the state and the local governments. We will engage them in a partnership arrangement. The focal point of this administration is grassroots-based. “The state government will leverage on its firm commitment to the provision of infrastructure in the rural communities as well as general wellbeing of the dwellers, to create synergy and ensure that the activities of the local governments are repositioned for utmost positive impact on the people”, Barr. Okonkwo said. Vanguard Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, has reiterated his second term inaugural speech’s stance for all critical players in local government areas to stay or live in their respective domains to promote effective local administration and development, asking them to relocate to their communities. June 3, 2019 In "News" There was jubilation in Enugu yesterday as Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi flagged off the construction of the second phase of the all-important Nike Lake-Harmony Estate-Adoration Ministry- Emene road in Enugu East Local Government Area, linking the ever-busy Nike Road and Emene. April 16, 2019 In "News" Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Tuesday performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the administrative building of the first University of Education in the South East geo-political zone, the Enugu State University of Education in Ihe, Awgu Local Government Area amid jubilation and excitement. April 9, 2019 In "Education"