The Kano state police command’s Anti-Kidnapping Team of Operation Puff Adder has rescued another 11-year-old boy kidnapped in Kano, Muhammed Ya’u and sold in Onitsha, Anambra. This is contained in a statement sighed by the command’s Public Relations Officer, DSP Abdullahi Haruna and issued to newsmen in Kano on Tuesday. According to the police spokesman, Ya’u was kidnapped in the 2014 at PRP Quarters in Kano metropolis by one Paul Onwe and his wife Mercy Paul and sold the victim to one Ebere Ogbodo at the sum of N200,000. “In continuation of the Command’s effort to rescue the children kidnapped from Kano to other parts of the country, between 05/11/2014 to 08/11/2019, the command’s Anti Kidnapping Team of Operation Puff Adder carried out another rescue operation. “During the operation, one Muhammed Ya’u ‘m’ 11 years old kidnapped in the year 2014 at PRP Quarters in Kano, was successfully rescued at Onitsha in Anambra State. “The victim was kidnapped by Paul Onwe and Mercy Paul’ and sold to Ebere Ogbodo ‘at the sum of Two Hundred Thousand Naira (N200,000) and renamed as Chinedu Ogbodo,” Haruna said. He said all the three suspects were currently under investigation while effort was being intensified to rescue more kidnapped children. “The Command is using this medium to thank the good people of the state for their support, patience and efforts in fighting all forms of crime and criminality in the state,” he added. The Kano state police command’s Anti-Kidnapping Team of Operation Puff Adder has rescued another 11-year-old boy kidnapped in Kano, Muhammed Ya’u and sold in Onitsha, Anambra. November 13, 2019 In "News" The Kano State Police Command has arrested several suspects for various crimes in the state before, during and after the Independent day celebrations and rescued nine abducted children. The State Commissioner of Police, Mr Ahmed Iliyasu, made the disclosure in Kano on Friday while briefing newsmen at the command’s Headquarter.… October 11, 2019 In "Metro" Kano—A 19-year-old secondary school leaver, Ibrahim Ahmad, was yesterday, arrested by the Kano State Police Command over the kidnap and drugging to death of a five-year-old primary school pupil, identified as Ahmad Ado, popularly known as Sayyid. July 12, 2019 In "News"