As Muslims across the world commemorate Eid-ul-Maulud, which is the birth of Prophet Mohammed, the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Architect Olamilekan Adegbite, Saturday, urged Muslims in the country to adhere to teachings and injunctions of the Glorious Koran. This was contained in a statement signed by the Special Adviser on Media to the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Ayodeji Adeyemi, which Adegbite also called on Nigerians to be good neighbours living in peace and harmony, and avoid any form of division. He said: “All Muslim faithful should adhere to the teachings of the Holy Prophet as you mark Eid-ul-Maulud, in commemoration of the birthday of the Holy Prophet Muhammad. “As we commemorate the birthday of the Holy Prophet, It is good for us to remember his teachings on being good neighbours. Nigerians should be their neighbours’ keepers. If we all followed the teachings of all the Holy prophets, then Nigeria should be a good country.” Meanwhile, the Minister also assured Nigerians that the economy has been placed by the Buhari-led administration on the path of growth and development. “The federal government headed by President Muhammadu Buhari is working tirelessly to improve the welfare of all Nigerians. The nation is on the path of economic recovery and growth. “However I am optimistic that Nigeria would be great again, due to the good reforms being embarked upon by our President who has the interests of Nigerians at hand”, he added. vanguard The Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Mr. Olamilekan Adegbite, said on Saturday the Federal Government was working assiduously to improve the welfare of Nigerians. Adegbite said this in a statement Abuja to congratulate Muslim faithful on the occasion of Eid-el-Maulud. The minister, who expressed confidence that the country was… November 9, 2019 In "News" The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, urged Muslims to emulate Prophet Muhammad’s teachings, which border on charity, tolerance and peaceful co-existence. Obasa, who is also the Chairman, Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures in Nigeria, made the call on Saturday, as Muslims the world over get… November 9, 2019 In "News" The Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Nogheghase Obaseki, has extended felicitation to Muslim faithful in Edo State and across the country as they commemorate the birthday of the Holy Prophet Mohammed (S.A.W). November 21, 2018 In "News"