Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Kogi state, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has charged the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to end what it called its apparent tilt towards underhandedness in the electoral processes leading to balloting. This is as the party said the umpire’s “failure to openly inform stakeholders on the election modalities, particularly the use of card readers, the mode of accreditation, voting, as well as collation, transmission and declaration of election results from the polling units to the final declaration, raises questions on the sincerity of the commission to deliver a credible election.” In a statement issued by the party’s spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan on Tuesday, the PDP noted that “such suppression of vital information ahead of this crucial election heightens public suspicion and allegations of conspiracies between INEC and the All Progressives Congress, APC, to muddle up and manipulate the electoral processes to favour the APC.” It warned that that the situation is already generating tension in the state, “given the insistence of the people for a transparent, free and credible election that will only reflect their wishes and aspirations at the polls.” The statement read in part: “Our party forewarns the chairman of INEC, Prof. Yakubu Mahmood, not to cause trouble in Kogi state by immediately declaring the mode of transmission of results given the claims by the commission, before the Presidential Election Petition Panel, that it does not have a server. “The PDP charges the INEC chairman not to allow the commission to be entangled with the sinister plots of the APC. He should immediately clear the air on the manner of accreditation of voters, checking of voter register disparities, the modality for voting as well as whether the commission will deploy manual or electronic transmission of election results to the final declaration. “The PDP wants INEC to know that the party and the people of Kogi state are not leaving anything to chance in this election. For the people of Kogi state, this election marks their irrevocable determination to entrench a new order in their state and they are not ready to accept any process that does not point to assurances of a transparent, credible, free and fair election. “Our party therefore requests the management of INEC to provide answers to these crucial issues within the next 24 hours as its silence is already spawning anxieties, which are capable of triggering serious crisis ahead of the election.” Vanguard News By Dirisu Yakubu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday said the crowd of people that attended its official flag-off of its governorship campaign in Lokoja, Kogi state capital on Friday, is a resounding declaration by the people to kick out Governor Yahaya Bello out of office on November 16.… October 27, 2019 In "News" The Coalition of Civil Society, politicians and voters in Kogi have called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to intensify efforts in educating the electorate on the need to abide by the Electoral Act. November 23, 2015 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the unprecedented crowd at the official flag-off of its governorship campaign in Lokoja, Kogi on Friday was an indication of its imminent victory in the Nov. 16 governorship election in the state. October 27, 2019 In "News"