The Ogun State government has vowed to lock up houses without toilet facilities and get the landlords arrested to face the full weight of the law. This warning came in the wake of cholera outbreak which hit Abule-Otun, Lafenwa, Kuto and Idi-Aba areas of Abeokuta, the Ogun State, capital and reportedly claimed five lives. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, Dr Adesanya Ayinde said the State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun’s directive to that effect would become operational this week. He said the governor opined that open defecation in the 21st century has become unacceptable world over given the danger it is capable of unleashing on human lives, such as cholera and other infections. Dr Ayinde, said that government will soon send workers out to inspect round the length and breadth of the state, warning that anyone found flouting the order will face the wrath of the law. “Government will soon send its workers to inspect houses across the state. Any house owner who fails to provide toilet in his house will be made to face the consequences,” the Permanent Secretary stated. Highlighting the efforts made by the present administration in Ogun State to contain the epidemic, he said that government had swung into action on confirming an index case by commencing a thorough investigation in the suspected areas and visiting the health facilities in the communities for search in case of any active complaints. Dr. Ayinde stated that out of the five deaths reported in the news, only one was taken to a government health facility, pointing out that contact tracing helped the officials to get information on the other four victims. “Away from insinuations from some quarters, not only cholera causes vomiting and diarrhoea but the index case was confirmed by a laboratory test. “Our action is to see that we disseminate correct information to different places. We have our Information Communication Education (IEC) materials across the state, including the rural areas,” he said. Dr Ayinde said that the State Hospital, Ijaiye, Abeokuta, has been identified as referral centre for treatment, noting that cholera alert has been sent to all health facilities in the state in case of any suspected patient. He added that the present administration in the state has decided to fumigate the affected areas through the Ministries of Health and Agriculture respectively to get rid of any form of infectious diseases. The Permanent Secretary said that health workers are on the field for continuous surveillance, adding that efforts have been set in motion to sensitise the public on safe drinking, hand washing as well as personal and environmental hygiene. Vanguard News Nigeria. No fewer than five persons were confirmed dead and 12 reported cases on Friday due to cholera at Lafenwa, Abeokuta North local council of Ogun. November 30, 2019 In "Health" By James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta The Ogun State government has canceled the monthly sanitation exercise for November 2019, in the State. The government said it has also lifted the restriction of movement order. This, the State government said would enable secondary school students across the state to take part in… November 30, 2019 In "News" By James Ogunnaike, Abeokuta The Ogun State government has cancelled the monthly sanitation exercise for November, 2019, in the State. The government said it has also lifted restriction of movement order. This, the State government said would enable secondary school students across the state to take part in the on-going… November 29, 2019 In "News"