The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) is partnering with the management of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) to clean up food and beverage debris on waterways. The General Manager of LASWA, Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Tuesday. He said that FBRA had on Monday signed an agreement with the Lagos State Government. NAN reports that FBRA is a combination of various food and beverage companies which comprise Coca-Cola, 7Up, Nigerian Breweries, Nestle, among others. “The management of the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance (FBRA) has signed an agreement with the Lagos State Government to commence the collection of pet bottles littering the inland waterways and handle them over to recycling companies. “FBRA has purchased six boats and today, they have officially handed the boats over to the management of the Lagos State Waste Management Authority (LAWMA). “The boats are an addition to the ongoing efforts by the Lagos State Government through LAWMA team to rid the waterways of all kinds of waste. “The Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) will be supporting this initiative by providing infrastructure for the boats to berth and also muster points for waste collection,” Emmanuel said. According to him, the authority is pleased with the waterways clean-up project. Emmanuel said that the clean-up would ensure that waterways were free of debris for safe travels for all waterways users and for a greater Lagos. He called on Lagos residents and boat operators to join hands with the state government in ensuring a safe, clean and prosperous inland waterways system. Vanguard The Lagos State government has indicated interest to partner with the Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance FBRA, on the eradication of post-consumer polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottles that are improperly disposed thereby blocking drainage channels and canals in our environment. October 23, 2018 In "Homes & Property" Removes 100 million wrappers of packaging waste from environment As part of its continued efforts towards environmental sustainability, Nestlé Nigeria has restated the need for continued consumer education on the collection and proper disposal of packaging waste. The company said on Tuesday in Lagos that it was in line with… December 3, 2019 In "News" LAGOS—THE Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance, FBRA, has been commended by the Lagos State Ministry of the Environment as it embarked on a clean-up exercise at the Arena Market in Oshodi, Lagos, weekend, in commemoration of the World Clean up Day, which is celebrated September 15, every year. September 17, 2018 In "News"