Pakistani protesters were gathering on Wednesday and thousands of activists remained camped in the capital after an opposition leader pledged to ramp up action to oust Prime minister Imran Khan. Opposition leaders announced plans to block major highways, halt traffic and suspend the fuel supply from the southern port city of Karachi late Tuesday night. Members of Jamiat Ulama-e-Islam Islamic party led by an influential cleric, Maulana Fazlur Rehman, captured a major highway in Islamabad on Nov. 1. “We are now going for plan B and will not stop before throwing out illegal government,” Rehman said in a speech to his cheering supporters. Rehman, a 66-year-old Sunni Muslim, was leading the protests with his followers mainly from the Islamic schools. Other parties including that of former premier Nawaz Sharif have also been taking part in the protests but their presence has been thin. The opposition said last year’s elections that brought Khan to power were rigged by the military to install a government of the generals’ choice. The military has ruled Pakistan for almost half of its existence since the country gained independence from Britain in 1947. Opposition parties said they would seek fresh elections without manipulation by the military. The opposition parties have also begun an impeachment process against the deputy speaker of the parliament, a close aid of Khan, with voting expected in a couple of weeks. Source: NAN Vanguard News ONCE in a while, our troubled world throws up unexpected leaders who may be a force for further degeneration as is the case of American President Donald Trump, or positive change as the new Pakistani Prime Minister, Imran Ahmed Khan Niazi might  be.  It is still dawn, so too early… August 31, 2018 In "News" Lawmakers in Pakistan’s lower house of parliament elected former cricket legend Imran Khan as the country’s new prime minister on Friday, paving the way for him to form a coalition government. August 17, 2018 In "News" London's new Muslim mayor Sadiq Khan accused Prime Minister David Cameron on Sunday of using "Donald Trump playbook" tactics to try to divide communities in a bid to prevent his election. May 8, 2016 In "News"