As Dana Air celebrates the 11th anniversary of its flight operations, the Chief Operating Officer, Mr Obi Mbanuzuo  has revealed that the airline has flown over 2.7 million passengers  in the eleven years of its operation. The airline marked the anniversary by rewarding customers with various gifts ranging from free tickets to souvenirs. Mbanuzuo ,while speaking at a brief ceremony  in Lagos,  said that the airline would never have made it this far but for its loyal guests and staff who believed in  what the airline stood for and have kept it going, hence the reward and  celebration with customers He said : “For us 11 years means we are doing the right things and making the right decisions at the right time.  We have been methodical, careful and realistic in our steps and we hope to consolidate our existing routes to provide full capacity, seamless travel and options for our guests to travel conveniently yuletide while still reviewing our route expansion plans”. ”So many airlines have come and gone maybe due to some incidents in the past or inability to cope with the operating environment but we have been here for 11 years and still counting because of our loyal customers, dedicated staff strength and above all a sound management team with a massive experience in the Nigerian aviation industry running the airline with a model worthy of emulation”. “We thank the Present administration led by His Excellency  President Muhammed Buhari, for gradually creating the ambience for airlines to thrive and the efforts so the area of infrastructure is commendable. We hope that these efforts are sustained in the coming years and other areas hampering the growth of airlines reviewed” he added. Vanguard Dana Air has said it has flown over 2.7 million passengers in the last nine years of its operation, which it attributes to on-time performance of the airline. November 14, 2017 In "News" Dana Air yesterday said it has flown over 2.7 million passengers in the last 9 years of their operation and this is attributable to the on-time performance of the airline. This was disclosed by Mr Obi Mbanuzuo , Chief Operating Officer / Accountable Manager, Dana Air while speaking about the… November 9, 2017 In "News" Dana Air on Saturday celebrated its 10th anniversary in Nigeria’s aviation industry in spite of the turbulence the airline had gone through in the past years. The airline has the enviable record of being the first airline to have survived air mishap in Nigeria and emerged stronger with more passenger… November 17, 2018 In "News"