Plateau State Government has been challenged to provide services against its tax collections from corporate organizations, especially those in the rural areas, in other to assist the organizations in creating wealth and adding value to the rural economy. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of First Lowland Micro-Finance Bank limited, Mr. Amos Balami, gave the charge while briefing shareholders on the activities of the bank during its combined 9th and 10th Annual General Meeting, AGM. Balami who commended the doggedness of the shareholders in sustaining the operations of the micro-finance bank in such a rural environment like Mabudi, Langtang South local government area of Plateau State, expressed optimism that with improved social amenities, the micro-finance bank can achieve more for the people at the grassroots. He said, “Government is taking N6million from us yearly as taxes but we are not feeling any impact. In our immediate environment, we lack basic infrastructure such as light. Langtang South has not experienced a blink of light from the public supply in the past four years hence we depend fully on generator. No good roads or water, heightened insecurity, low prices of agricultural produce. “These have greatly hampered economic activities and resulted in increased cost of doing business. But the Board and Management have remained focused in addressing the challenges posed by the state of the economy in general and those directly affecting the bank in particular. “In spite of all these, your bank has continued to wax stronger across most key performance induce with increased profitability, increased shareholders’ funds, increased customer base, reduced non-performing loans and increased goodwill. Our flashing product, Nbol-Iram has continued to perform creditably and a great asset to rural farmers.” Vanguard The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN has disclosed it had guaranteed a total of N259.823million to 1,447 benefiting farmers in Plateau State between 2015 and 2017 and urged farmers who are yet to key into the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund, ACGSF to do so and improve their input in… November 4, 2017 In "News" RURAL women in Plateau State have been urged to take advantage of the micro-finance banks in their locality to save money, rather than spend same on frivolity which adds no value to their lives. October 20, 2015 In "News" Jos - Employment and investment opportunities have been opened to rural dwellers in Southern and Central Senatorial zones of Plateau State as Light Microfinance bank, a local financial institution concerned with the economic empowerment of the “active poor” in the State opened businesses in the zones. November 28, 2016 In "News"