In line with its commitment to deepen financial inclusion and drive its digitization agenda, Financial Institution, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, recently launched the Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet. Osinbajo says NDIC reference point for deposit insurance globally(Opens in a new browser tab) According to the institution, the product is to provide a unique range of financial services to the informally served, the underbanked and the unbanked on various structured platforms with the last 10 digits of a phone number. It said Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet affords customers the opportunity to access banking services such as interbank transfers, debit card issuance and cardless withdrawals from Automated Teller Machines, ATMs, or the Agent Network, amongst others. Stanbic IBTC says the new service reinforces its drive to support the federal government to deepen financial inclusion and thereby drive economic growth.  It also explained that customers can open a Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet through Unstructured Supplementary Service Data, USSD, application, App or Agent locations nationwide. Union Bank’s profit up by 5% to N15.6 bn in Q3(Opens in a new browser tab) The Bank’s Executive Director, Personal and Business Banking, Wole Adeniyi said: “The Stanbic IBTC @ease wallet is a financial freedom vehicle for all Nigerians to access seamless financial services. This service is available to every Nigerian that can legally own a bank account. The bank promised to follow up the product launch, with a series of market and Campus activations starting from the ongoing Lagos International Trade Fair. Vanguard Stanbic IBTC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has said it plans to deepen financial and entrepreneurial knowledge among Nigeria’s younger generations through a Youth Leadership Series. January 25, 2018 In "Business" Head, Business Banking, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC, Remy Osuagwu, in this interview, explains Stanbic IBTC’s resolve to build capacity and provide financing for the growth of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) segment in Nigeria. June 2, 2019 In "Business" Babatunde Macaulay is the Head, Transactional Products & Services, Stanbic IBTC Bank. He serves as the Head of Transactional Products & Services at Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc and Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC. He holds a Bachelor's degree in Industrial Chemistry and an MSc in International Human Resource Management at Cranfield… August 11, 2014 In "Business"