The Labour Party in Enugu State has dragged to court the Senator representing Enugu North Senatorial District, Senator Chuka Utazi, for hoarding 2018 items meant for disbursement as a constituency project. The items included large quantities of tricycles, grinding machines, among other social welfare poverty alleviation products. Even though the items have been distributed under a intervention of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, the Labour party in suit No. E/993/2019 lodged at the Enugu state high court demands for a declaration that the previous seizure and hoarding of the Constituency Projects belonging to Enugu North Senatorial district, awarded for procurement since January 23 2018 amounted to gross dereliction of duty, abuse of office, incompetence and reprehensible. Joined in the suit is the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, a political platform under which Senator Utazi was elected into the upper chamber of the National Assembly. The applicant is also praying for a declaration that members of Labour Party in Enugu North Senatorial district were entitled to benefit from Constituency Projects but were denied and demanded a sum of N50million against the Defendants for deliberately shutting out members of Labour Party in Enugu North Senatorial district. Enugu State Chairman of Labour Party Enugu State, Dr Gerald Abonyi stated that there was an urgent need for elected political office holders to understand their duties and responsibilities. The matter has been slated for hearing on January 16 2020. Vanguard News ENUGU - SENATOR representing Enugu North senatorial district, Enugu state at the National Assembly, Sen. Chukwuka Utazi has dismissed reports that officials of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, ICPC had sealed his residence at Nkpologu in Uzuwani Local Government Area for not distributing items meant for… August 7, 2019 In "News" The Special Assistant to Enugu state Governor on New Media Matters, Mr. Emmanuel Jonathan, JP, has commended the 2019 Gubernatorial Candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Sen. Ayogu Eze, over his plans to consider discontinuing with the post-election battle for the unity and progress of Enugu State. April 8, 2019 In "News" SENATOR Chuka Utazi representing Enugu north senatorial zone at the upper chambers of the national assembly have described the return of ex-governor Chimaroke Nnamani back to the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, as a welcome development, showing that the party is getting wider to arraign forces together for the 2019 general… September 23, 2018 In "News"