The Senate Committee on Finance asked the Deputy Governor of CBN,  Adebisi Shonubi, who represented Emefiele to leave with his team. The Senate  Committee on Finance had invited the CBN Governor to appear before it yesterday to explain the rationale behind the exchange rates it used for three key projects under the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund(PIDF) being funded to the tune of billions of naira by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment  Authority(NSIA) across the country. Emefiele was expected at the Senate panel with detailed explanations on the rationale behind the exchange rates the CBN used for three key projects under the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund. The multi-billion-dollar projects are being funded by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment  Authority. Also recall that the  PIDF was earmarked from the dollar-denominated Sovereign Wealth Fund to partly fund the Lagos–Ibadan Expressway, Second Niger Bridge,  Abuja–Kano Expressway, East-West Road and Mambilla Hydro Project. The first three projects had already been funded to the tune of N163.8bn. Vanguard  The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, has set aside over N1 trillion to promote lending to the real sector of the economy with a view to stimulating economic activities in the country. The Governor of the CBN, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, disclosed this at the 21st Seminar for Finance Correspondents and… February 8, 2016 In "News" THE Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Mr Godwin Emefiele, yesterday,said the decision of the bank to allow the current multiple exchange rate regime in the country was to encourage Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs thrive. October 11, 2017 In "Business" Emma Ujah The Governor of the Central bank of Nigeria (CBN), Mr Godwin Emefiele, has said that there was no need to panic over global slow growth. In a keynote address at the African Economic Congress (AEC), in Abuja, yesterday, he said that what was necessary was well-thought policy measures… November 4, 2019 In "Business"