The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has inaugurated the Law Reforms and the Local Government Service Commissions, charging members of the commissions to support his administration’s zero-tolerance for corruption. Governor Obaseki, who noted that institutional reform is pivotal in the agenda of his administration, urged the newly inaugurated commissions to ensure efficiency and transparency in carrying out their mandates of driving key reforms in the state. Obaseki said the role of the Law Reform Commission is important to deepen the development and growth of Edo State is experiencing. He expressed displeasure that nearly more than two decades since Edo State was created, the state can’t boost of a compendium of Edo laws but still relies on the old Bendel State laws. “I am giving you a task to, within 12 months of your tenure in office, compile the laws of Edo State. As a state, we have received significant policy advancement in the area of education, healthcare, security and access to justice.” Obaseki said the state’s policy directions are a clear departure from the past, adding, “Our laws must reflect Edo being Nigeria’s most progressive state with easy access to justice, business enablers and social benefits.” The governor said the inauguration of the Local Government Service Commission is part of the commitment of his administration to strengthen governance at the grassroots level. He noted that the third tier of government is critical to the success of democracy as its undoubtedly the most important layer in the wheels of governance. Obaseki said, “We will continue to show stewardship by fighting corruption at all levels. This government has zero-tolerance for corruption at the local government. I have instructed the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to go into partnership with the Local Government Service Commission and the Ministry of Local Government to combat corruption. As a government, we will not tolerate corruption in local governments anymore. “One of the key emphasis of my administration is capacity building, particularly in the local government. We will be investing a significant amount in developing and building the capacity of the local government employees.” He urged members of both commissions never to use their positions to oppress the people and enrich themselves. “This is a noble assignment that requires your utmost devotion to the service of humanity and sustenance of ethical standards at all times. If found corrupt or wanting in your duty, you will face the full wrath of the law,” the governor stressed. Chairman Law Reforms Commission, Charity Aiguobarueghian and his counterpart in the Local Government Service Commission, Tom Uloko thanked the governor for the opportunity to serve, pledging to discharge their duties faithfully according to the law and contribute to the growth and development of the State. vanguard The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, will inaugurate the newly constituted Law Reform and Local Government Service Commissions tomorrow, Tuesday, 26th November, 2019. According to a statement by Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, Esq., the inauguration will take place at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Benin City,… November 26, 2019 In "News" The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that his administration is resolute about upholding the rights of citizens through reforms in the judiciary, which he noted, have enjoyed the support of local and international partners. November 13, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights" The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has advocated for strong institutions, use of technology and change of attitude in the fight against corruption, especially in developing countries, which will discourage the ugly act. December 9, 2018 In "News"