President Muhammadu Buhari has ratified the Protocol to Amend the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft (Hague Convention of 1971) (Beijing Protocol 2010). President Buhari also ratified the Protocol to Amend the Convention on the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against Safety of Civil Aviation (The Montreal Convention of 1971) (Beijing Protocol 2010). A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja, stated that the instruments were ratified by President Buhari on November 22, 2019. According to the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), the Beijing Protocol supplements the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, done at The Hague on 16 December 1970 (The Hague Convention, 1970). To this end, the Protocol expands the scope of The Hague Convention to cover different forms of aircraft hijackings, including through modern technological means. President Buhari also ratified the Protocol to Amend the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft (Montreal Protocol 2014) as well as the protocol to Amend Article (50a) and Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation (Chicago Convention of December 1944) (Montreal Protocol 2016). The President also ratified the Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA) between the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). With the execution of these Instruments, it is expected that Nigeria’s aviation links with the UAE will improve significantly. The Federal Executive Council had at its meetings of October 16, 2019, approved the ratification and the preparation of the requisite Instruments of the Ratification of the aforementioned treaties and conventions. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Federal Executive Council, FEC, on Wednesday approved about N5.4 billion for construction of Oil and Gas parks in Akwa Ibom and the Bayelsa States and indoor shooting range for aviation security. October 16, 2019 In "News" ABUJA- THE Federal Executive Council, FEC, on Wednesday approved about N5.4 billion for construction of Oil and Gas parks in Akwa Ibom and Bayelsa States and indoor shooting range for aviation security. October 16, 2019 In "News" The Centre for Citizens with Disability (CDD) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assent to the Disability Bill to ensure the full integration of People with Disabilities (PWDs) into the society. May 11, 2018 In "News"