Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that his government belongs to all Rivers people,  saying that it not a Government for any particular group in the state. Speaking during a Courtesy Visit by Amayanabo of Wakrike Kingdom,  Okrika, and Prominent Chiefs of Okrika on Tuesday,  Governor Wike said that the primary goal of his Administration is to promote the interest of Rivers State. He said: “This Government is not a Government of you are from here or there. My Government is a Government of Rivers State.  It is not a Government of a particular place. “Anything that will promote the interest of Rivers State is what I will do. You can be my sister state, if you want to take what belongs to Rivers State,  I will not agree. I will not sell Rivers State for any cost. Let’s be our brother’s keeper.” Governor Wike said with the fall of Bayelsa State to the enemies,  the next target of the enemies would be Rivers State. “Unfortunately,  one of our states is gone to enemies.  But God will help us. “For us who are from Rivers State,  we should know that there will be an attack on us because the enemy has entered our territory.  They will attack us, but with your prayer, Rivers State will prevail “, he said. Governor Wike praised the Okrika people for the role they played during the last elections. “The role you played during the last elections,  showed that when you give your support,  you give your support.  People should be known for something. “If you give your word, you give your word.  In all my political career,  I have seen that when Okrika people say they want to do something,  they will do it.  You are different and I commend you “, he said. Governor Wike warned people against bearing arms, saying that it negates the principle of peace. He said: “The only reason why people get arms is that the Nigerian Army is now part of elections. ” Governor Wike urged the monarch to use his position to promote peace and development in Okrika. He appealed to him to carry all interest groups along. He informed that the Rivers State Government will approach the State House of Assembly for the amendment of the name of the stool to read: “the Amanyanabo of Okrika ” as requested by the Traditional Ruler. In his remarks,  the Amanyanabo of Wakrike Kingdom,  Okrika,  King Alfred Sementari Abam congratulated the Rivers State Governor on his re-election and the confirmation of his victory by the Supreme Court. He said that the re-election of Governor Wike was because of his outstanding performance and project delivery. He also thanked Governor Wike for the recognition granted his stool after the court judgment. He, however, appealed to the Rivers State Governor to ensure that the name of the stool is changed from Amayanabo of Wakrike Kingdom,  Okrika to Amanyanabo of Okrika. vanguard In furherance of the peace building measures across the state, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has charged the new Amanyanabo of Okochiri town, HRM King Ateke Michael Tom( JP) to continue to invest in the sustenance of peace in Okrika. November 25, 2017 In "News" There are several Biblical Guides to   courage and victory in the face of extreme ungodly obstacles. One of such guides is the one recorded in Numbers that involved Caleb. April 6, 2019 In "News" In a move to promote national unity and peaceful coexistence , a high-powered delegation of the Northern Governors Forum on Monday visited Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, commending him for taking urgent steps that led to the protection of Nigerians living in the state. September 18, 2017 In "News"