Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Inc said on Monday that sales for its annual Singles’ Day shopping blitz hit 91.2 billion yuan ($13 billion) within the first hour, up 32% from last year’s early haul of 69 billion yuan. Akin to Black Friday and Cyber Monday in the United States, Singles’ Day has been promoted as a shopping fest by Alibaba Chairman and Chief Executive Daniel Zhang since 2009, growing rapidly to become the world’s biggest online sales event. Also known as “Double Eleven”, the festival’s name originates from the calendar date 11/11, with the four ones referencing being single. Alibaba saw sales worth $30 billion on its platforms on Singles’ Day last year, dwarfing $7.9 billion U.S. online sales for Cyber Monday. Yet the 27% sales growth was the lowest in the event’s 10-year history, spurring a search for fresh ideas. The $486 billion Chinese retail juggernaut kicked off this year’s 24-hour shopping fest with performances by American pop star Taylor Swift and local celebrities like Jackson Yee. This is the first time Alibaba’s Singles’ Day does not have flamboyant co-founder Jack Ma at its helm, after he resigned in September as chairman. It also comes at a crucial time for the company, which is looking to raise up to $15 billion via a share sale in Hong Kong this month. Alibaba continues to dominate the online shopping industry, but not without competition. In addition to longtime rival JD.com, it now faces competition from upstart Pinduoduo, which surged in popularity in 2017 by targeting consumers in China’s lower-tier cities. Source: Reuters Vanguard News  Chinese shoppers spent a record $25 billion online on this year’s “Singles Day” promotion run by e-commerce giant Alibaba, up nearly 40 percent from last year, figures showed on Sunday. November 12, 2017 In "Just Human" Chinese retail giant Alibaba said on Thursday that its revenue jumped 61 percent in the latest quarter as its core e-commerce segment chugged along, but profit for the period was dragged down by a one-off expense. August 23, 2018 In "Business" Both in personality and skillset, Alibaba's Daniel Zhang will herald a new era for the Chinese e-commerce giant when he takes over full leadership from charismatic founder Jack Ma. September 10, 2018 In "Business"