THE country home of the late Ijaw freedom fighter, Major Isaac Adaka Boro, Kaiama, yesterday, threw its weight behind the PDP Governorship Candidate, Senator Douye Diri. Thousands of party supporters wielding the PDP flag chanted solidarity songs in the historic and symbolic town of the Ijaw struggle during the mega rally in Kaiama, headquarters of Kolokuma/Opokuma local government area, Bayelsa State. In separate solidarity speeches, prominent sons from the local government, immediate past Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Tonye Isenah and PDP stalwart, former Special Adviser to President Goodluck Jonathan on Domestic Matters, Hon, Waripamowei Dudafa, urged the people to work for the Senator Diri and Lawrence ticket. In his remarks, Bayelsa State Governor, Hon Seriake Dickson, said that victory was already awaiting the PDP. “Your massive turn out is a clear indication of your total support to the PDP and I am sure that you are ready to give your votes en bloc to Senator Douye Diri who is an illustrious and worthy son of Kolokuma. “I want Kolokuma/Opokuma people to remain focused, peaceful and united and rally round Senator Douye Diri because the task ahead is a collective one. I urge you all to turn out in your numbers this Saturday to deliver him as the man I will hand over to come February 2020 as the next governor of the state.” Chairman of the state PDP, Moses Cleopas and the Director General of the PDP gubernatorial Campaign team, Dr. Nimbofa Ayawei urged the people to reciprocate the huge investments that the PDP-led government under Governor Dickson had made in their area by giving PDP bloc votes. By Emem Idio - Yenagoa Governor Seriake Dickson has charged the people of  Kolokuma/Opokuma Local Government Area not to let their son and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, down by ensuring that they come out in their numbers to vote massively for the PDP on Saturday. Dickson, stated this when… November 13, 2019 In "Politics" By Samuel Oyadongha - Yenagoa Over 1,000 kinsmen of the first civilian governor of Bayelsa State, late Chief DSP Alamieyeseigha in Amassoma community on Monday threw their weight behind the candidacy of the PDP standard-bearer, Senator Douye Diri for the November 16 governorship election in the state. Earlier, the State… October 22, 2019 In "Politics" BAYELSA State Governor, Hon Seriake Dickson, weekend, expressed optimism that the November 16 governorship election in the state will be peaceful and the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Candidate, Senator Douye Diri, will emerge tops. November 4, 2019 In "News"