ABUJA- VICE President Yemi Osinbajo, weekend met with with a delegation from Oduduwa University, Ile Ife, Osun State, led by the institution’s Chancellor and Founder, Dr. Rahmon Adedoyin at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Prof. Osinbajo at the meeting which was held behind closed doors said that the importance of education in nation building cannot be overemphasized. In an interview with State House correspondents after the meeting, Dr. Adedoyin said that the visit was to invite the Vice President to the university’s forthcoming convocation. He said that the delegation had a productive discussion with Osinbajo. According to him, “We have our convocation ceremony coming up on Nov. 27 and No. 28 and we have come to invite the vice president to grace the occasion. “That is precisely why we are here and to pay him a courtesy visit too. “We charted with him and it was very fruitful.’’ On the role of educationists in reshaping the society, Adedoyin said he believed that education could be used in building worthy citizens who would be impactful to society. He said he had deployed what God endowed him with towards the growth of society as Oduduwa University had produced professors, medical doctors among others On the role of the traditional institution in ensuring security, he said that traditional rulers knew the grassroots and should be engaged in maintaining security. Adedoyin, who is the Maye of Yorubaland, said that the council of kings administered the nation before the advent of civilisation. “So, I believe that the role should still continue because they are the people who know the grassroots. “If you look at it very well from the scratch, if you take care of your child from the scratch, apart from the school that he goes; I think you have done very well. “So, the traditional institution is playing a very vital role in this country,’’ he said Vanguard It would not have been a surprise if after some roles were moved away from his schedule, the Vice President is seen slowing down and doing less. November 7, 2019 In "Viewpoint" Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, Ile-Ife rolled out the drums at its 5th convocation ceremonies. The founder and proprietor, Chief Ramon Adegoke Adedoyin (Maye of Ife Kingdom), noted with nostalgia that the university was not indebted to any bank in building its infrastructures. December 31, 2017 In "News" Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, Ile-Ife rolled out the drums at its 5th convocation ceremonies. December 31, 2017 In "People"