OPay, a provider of payment, ride-hailing, food delivery and loan services, has been given approval by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to commence international money transfer. With the approval, OPay will start facilitating remittance B2B, B2P and P2P remittance services into Nigeria. This is coming on the heels of the earlier announced $50 million fundraised from major venture capitalist some months ago. “The plan is to distort the remittance space and ensure that international money transfer into Nigeria is safer, faster and more affordable” according to Kunle Olamuyiwa, Director, Remittances Services at OPay. With OPay’s infrastructure in Nigeria, it will be easier and faster for global remittance companies to partner with OPay to help their customers to receive money from their business partners, customers and loved ones directly into their OPay wallet and any bank account or mobile wallet in Nigeria. Also, recipients can cash out their funds from their OPay wallets at any of the over 100,000 OPay mobile money agents in Nigeria. “We are already working with major global remittance companies around the world and will start facilitating remittances to Nigeria with these partners, ensuring the best fees and exchange rates, speed and security. “There is a plan to commence a big-bang promo in December with lots of prices for recipients of money transfer who receive their money directly into their OPay wallets. I can only advise everyone who has families around the world to get an OPay Wallet. They will get better value for these funds doing transfers to any bank, paying their bills, buying food and also using our on-demand transport services i.e. Oride, OBus and Otrike. And on top of all, they can channel unused funds to OWealth and earn interest on it daily. It is, indeed, better times for recipients of international money transfers in Nigeria,” he said. Vanguard ORide, a new on-demand motorbike hailing service has launched in Nigeria The ORide service can be accessed in the OPay app currently on Android and iOS. Launching first in Lagos, expansion plans have been made to cities like Ibadan. Passengers can take advantage of up to 90% discounts on fares… July 1, 2019 In "Sponsored" From an unprecedented high of N412 per dollar in the first week of August, the parallel market exchange rate dropped to N393 per dollar last week. The N19 appreciation for the local currency, which had depreciated by about 36 per cent this year, was prompted by increased dollar supply occasioned… August 22, 2016 In "Business" By Dennis Agbo, Enugu Operators of commercial tricycles, otherwise known as Keke, in Enugu state, have confirmed improved revenue using online operations to service their passengers. The operators made the revelation when its union officially launched Opay online transportation system in Enugu, yesterday. One of the riders, Chisom Onu said… September 26, 2019 In "Business"