The Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, has commended business mogul and Founder of Elizade Motors, Chief Michael Ade Ojo for his contributions toward the development of the Ilara-Mokin community in Ondo State. His commendation followed the grand inauguration of the 6-kilometre road network in Ilara-Mokin, Akure, Ondo State, constructed by Chief Ade-Ojo on Nov. 9. The minister, who was at the inauguration of the reconstructed road in the town, which hosts Elizade University, also founded by Chief Ade Ojo, lauded his commitment toward investing in the development of his immediate community. According to him, infrastructure development plays a key role in community and national development. “This 6-kilometre road construction which connects Ilara-Mokin and Ikota will ramp up social and economic growth to both communities, bringing transformation to Ondo State and Nigeria by extension. “The road construction has also led to the creation of jobs for both skilled and unskilled workers, and other professionals who were involved in the project,’’ Fashola said in a statement by him. Expressing his gratitude to Ade-Ojo, the minister said that it was remarkable for an individual to embark on an infrastructure development which contributes meaningfully to the speedy actualisation of community growth and the enhancement of the citizens’ welfare. The grand opening was graced by several dignitaries, including the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, the wife of the Ondo State Governor, Mrs Betty Anyawu-Akeredolu and the Alara of llara-Mokin, Ondo State, Oba Abiodun Aderemi Adefehinti among others. Vanguard FOR more than four decades, Chief Michael Ade Ojo has bestrode the Nigerian automotive sector like a collosus. January 1, 2018 In "Business" FOR more than four decades, Chief Michael Ade Ojo has bestrode the Nigerian automotive sector like a collosus. He began with the sale of various auto brands such as Peugeot, Volkswagen, etc, before finally settling for Toyota, a product he turned to a household name in the country. April 14, 2018 In "News" Elizade University, Nigeria has unveiled its new logo in a recent colourful event held in Lagos. The institution owned by famous business magnet, Chief Michael Ade-Ojo was established in 2013, and the new logo was launched to redefine its identity to meet up with 21st century trend of higher institutions… April 11, 2017 In "News"