Freight forwarders operating at Onne Port, Rivers State, have commended the West Africa Container Terminal (WACT) for significantly improving service delivery that has resulted in reduction in waiting time of ships to zero, leading to reduced vessel turnaround time. The freight forwarders also commended WACT for its massive investment in cargo handling equipment in response to unprecedented growth in container volume at the port. This year, WACT has invested $14 million (N5 billion) in the acquisition of sophisticated modern cargo handling equipment including two Mobile Harbour Cranes, 14 specialized terminal trucks and two reach stackers. The Chairman, Association of Registered Freight Forwarders of Nigeria (AREFFN), Onne Port, Chief Gabriel Okonkwo, said, “To be very frank with you about WACT operation, there has been substantial increase in import volume and to measure up with that, they have acquired a lot of equipment to ease cargo clearance and we commend them for that because they are doing very well. Every week, they receive between three to four ships. They are keeping up with the demand, they can receive vessels, do loading and drop containers for examination, all at the same time.” On his part, Chairman, National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Onne Port, Chief Emma Nnwamkpa, said, “WACT is operating very well. They brought new equipment over the last six months, so we don’t have any delays in working at the facility.” Also speaking, Chairman, Flat and Cargo Trailer Drivers Association, Comrade Adolphus Ugwu, said.  The West Africa Container Terminal (WACT), Onne Port, Rivers State, has acquired additional equipment including a reach stacker and two terminal trucks to further boost efficiency and cargo handling operations at the port.  This brings to six the number of trucks acquired by WACT this year. April 3, 2019 In "Maritime Report" EXECUTIVE Secretary/Chief Executive, Nigerian Shippers’Council, NSC, Hassan Bello, has indicated that competition in the nation’s ports infrastructure is the policy direction towards private sector-led efficiency in Nigeria’s maritime industry. July 31, 2019 In "Maritime Report" The West Africa Container Terminal (WACT), Onne Port, Rivers State, has said that it is preparing to take delivery of two new mobile harbour cranes from Liebherr, as part of a $10 million upgrade project. June 5, 2019 In "Maritime Report"