A Benue group under the aegis of Kwande Youth Council, KYC, has vowed to resist any move to impose a Local Government Chairmanship candidate on the people of Kwande Local Government Area, LGA, in the forthcoming council polls in the state. They warned those peddling the rumour that Governor Samuel Ortom had anointed a woman as the preferred candidate for Kwande LGA in the forthcoming election to learn from history and bury the idea. The group, in a statement issued yesterday in Makurdi by its publicity secretary Orkuma Adzua Ikyur, said the people of the area had never in the past allowed imposition of chairmanship candidates and would not give their consent to such in the area. They condemned the act of name dropping by desperate politicians to score cheap political points saying “some are claiming that Governor Ortom has anointed a female candidate being fronted by a section of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the LGA for the office of chairman. “Governor Ortom has a cordial relationship with the people of kwande, as evident in the high profile appointments he has trusted them with and will not buy into the machinations of a few individuals who are out to create chaos.” The group recalled how in 2004, a similar insinuation led to armed conflict that resulted in killings, destruction of property and the crumbling of economic activities in the area and cautioned against a repeat. The KYC urged political actors in the area to uphold the extant political arrangement which respects the wishes of the people of Kwande in line with the democratic principles of fairness, equity, and inclusion. Vanguard News Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue says he has no plans to anoint anybody as his successor. Ortom, while addressing PDP stakeholders’ on Friday in Makurdi, assured them that he would allow the party to field the most acceptable candidate for the governorship election in 2023. October 4, 2019 In "News" A Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, supporter in Adikpo, the headquarters of Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State, Mr. Terlumun Djomon has alleged that he was brutally attacked by some thugs he claimed were members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, party in the state. He also claimed that a… June 19, 2017 In "News" Gov. Samuel Ortom of Benue says he has no plans to anoint anybody as his successor. Ortom, while addressing PDP stakeholders’ on Friday in Makurdi, assured them that he would allow the party to field the most acceptable candidate for the governorship election in 2023. “If someone tells you that… October 4, 2019 In "Politics"