A member representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency, Mr Tajudeen Adefisoye has urged the Minister of Works, Mr Babatunde Fashola to declare a state of emergency on all federal roads in the country. Adefisoye, in a statement issued on Friday in Akure by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Oluyemi Fasipe, asked the minister to travel by road for six months and experience the ordeal ordinary Nigerians face everyday. The lawmaker, who was reacting to statement credited to the minister that ‘’Nigerian roads are not as bad as portrayed,” asked Fashola to seek forgiveness of God and Nigerians for his downplay of the terrible conditions of roads in the country. Adefisoye, who is deputy chairman, House Committee on Army, said that Fashola was very far from the deplorable state of Nigerian roads because he had been busy flying around the country. “The Minister is advised to stop flying jets for the next six months and should undertake a tour of the six geopolitical zones of the country by roads to appreciate the crucible experience of helpless Nigerians on the terribly deplorable state of the roads,’’ he said. According to him, many Nigerians have avoidably lost their lives on federal highways due to extremely bad state of the roads. The lawmaker added that criminal elements had also capitalised on the bad and impassable federal roads to kidnap, rob and kill innocent citizens. He further said that it would be difficult to pinpoint any stretch of federal road that was free from bad or impassable portions throughout the country. Adefisoye listed a few federal roads in terrible state across the country as; Akure- Owo Road, Ibadan -Oyo -Ogbomoso Road and Owo-Akoko Road. Others, according to the statement, include; Biu – Gombe road, Oyo- Iseyin road, Gboko -Katsina Alla – Zaki Biam Road, Lagos -Badagry Road, Asaba – Enugu Road among others. He advised the works minister to direct immediate palliative repairs of federal roads that have become impassable across the country. Vanguard The only Reps-elect on the Platform of Social Democratic Party(SDP) in the 9th House of Representatives, representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency of Ondo State,   Alhaji Tajudeen Adversary, also known as Small Alhaji, has promised to mobilize support for Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila across party lines to become Speaker. May 27, 2019 In "News" A member of the House of Representatives, Mr Tajudeen Adefisoye, has launched a massive repair and reticulation of all identified non-functional boreholes across the villages, hamlets and settlements in his constituency. Adefisoye, representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency in Ondo State, made this known on Friday in Akure. The lawmaker who is… September 13, 2019 In "News" The Honourable representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency Hon. Tajudeen Adefisoye @SmalAlhaji has appointed 32 aides. Hon Adefisoye made the announcement in a statement he signed and issued on Wednesday. ALSO READ: Infidelity: I regret allowing my wife go into politics The statement reads: "I am pleased to announce the appointment of… August 8, 2019 In "News"