Ayo Adetola admits he is enjoying comparisons with Spanish legend Xabi Alonso, while disclosing his resolve to become a household name. The midfielder joined Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) newcomers Delta Force from Niger Tornadoes at the start of the season – and within a short time has won fans’ hearts following his notable performances. In his recent league outing, Adetola was named man-of-the-match as Delta Force swept aside Jigawa Golden Stars 4-1. While claiming he models his game around the two-time Champions League winner, the former Mighty Jets skipper is aiming to improve on his game. “I feel honoured being compared with such a great player; it shows my quality is getting noticed,” Adetola told Goal. “He is one of my idols as I spend hours watching his video clips and also try some of his tricks during matches. “That being said, I am not carried away by this link as my focus is to keep working very hard to get better as a player – and someday, get a national team call-up.” Delta Force are guests of Wikki Tourists in Gombe this week and the midfielder is confident of victory despite the team’s tortuous two-day road trip. “We want to win this game to consolidate on our victory against Jigawa Stars,” he continued. “Although the trip was long and tiring, we are well prepared to leave Gombe with maximum points. “That will help our course of finishing this season with a continental ticket.” With four points from three matches, Delta Force are 10th in the Nigeria elite division log. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News “Our target is to secure a ticket to play in the Nigeria Premier League because we narrowly missed out last season after losing our last game owing to loss of concentration in the last ten minutes of the game,” Adetola said. “We are not leaving no stone unturned this time… May 16, 2015 In "News" A Spanish side that had won their past three major tournaments crashed out of the World Cup after just two games as they were beaten 2-0 by Chile having also been hammered 5-1 in their opening game by the Netherlands. June 19, 2014 In "2018 World Cup" Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho is set to leave star players Cristiano Ronaldo, Mesut Ozil, Sergio Ramos and Xabi Alonso out of his squad to face third division Alcoyano for their Spanish Cup Last 32 first-leg match on Wednesday. October 30, 2012 In "Sports"