Mr Tunde Olatunji, the Chief Whip of Osun House of Assembly, says his passion for functional education and commitment toward making learning attractive to students are factors responsible for his taking up voluntary teaching in public schools in the state. Olatunji (APC-Ife North) spoke on Monday while teaching Junior Secondary School students at C&S Government Middle School, Ipetumodu, under his programme tagged, “Tunde Goes To School,’’ on Monday. The lawmaker said voluntary teaching of students in public schools in the state was an effort on his part to drive quality and functional education by imparting knowledge and skills that would make the students to be useful to the society. Olatunji said his choice of mathematics as a subject to be taught was deliberate with the aim of stimulating the interest of youths “in this all-important subject often tagged as difficult.” He said Civic Education, which was his second choice of subject, would impact on the students a sense of national duty, obligation, patriotism, respect for human rights and ethics. “I have been privileged to have personal encounters and rub minds with well over 3,500 students in our secondary schools in the state since the beginning of this academic term about two months ago. “My experience in all the schools is similar and the common denominator is that our dear State of Osun and by extension, Nigeria, is indeed blessed with youthful talents and human capital remains our greatest asset,” Olatunji said. The lawmaker said his other educational programmes to assist many young talents in academics and sports across Osun State in the last four years had started yielding results. Vanguard News Nigeria. Mr. Tunde Olatunji, the Chief Whip of Osun State House of Assembly, has volunteered to teach mathematics and civic education in public middle schools in his constituency.   Olatunji disclosed this on Monday while addressing students and teachers at the unveiling of his teaching plan at Anglican Middle School, Edun-Abon,… September 23, 2019 In "Education" Things seemed to have been hard for private schools in Osun as some of the schools proprietors and proprietress lamented over the sharp decline in the ‎enrollment intake into the private schools in the state. September 5, 2017 In "News" The Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday moved to wade into the crisis rocking the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) due to disagreement between the management and staff of the institution. May 13, 2019 In "News"