Former President Goodluck Jonathan and his wife, Dame Patience, have cast their vote in Saturday’s governorship election in Bayelsa. The former President voted at 11:30 a.m., while his wife voted at 11:35 a.m. at Unit 39, Ward 13 at the Otazi Playground, Otuoke,  Ogbia local government area of the state. Jonathan and his spouse who waited for over two hours before voting due to delay in the arrival of materials expressed disappointment at the late arrival of materials to the polling units He said: “We must conduct ourselves if we want real people to rule us either as president or governors. Nigerians are always blaming people in authorities and the leaders, so here they must blame themselves. “Look at even this voting I was around earlier, but the materials were yet to arrive the polling unit. I have led election monitoring teams to other African countries. We use to go 30 minutes before the time and in our reports, we indicate the exact time when the vote starts. “So, for election to start after that time is an indictment on the electoral body that manages the election. There is no reason here for the election not to start by 8:00 a.m. Even the youths should stop blaming old people, you blame yourselves and do things properly. I am really disappointed with what I observe today compare to other African countries I monitor elections.”  Vanguard   Former President Goodluck Jonathan and his wife and mother, Ayi voted at unit 39, Ward 13 at the Otazi Playground, Otuoke in the Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa. February 23, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates" Nigerians demonstrated rare perseverance, yesterday, when they trooped out in large numbers to vote in presidential and National Assembly elections characterised by Smart Card Readers (SCRs) hitches and late arrival of materials at polling stations. March 29, 2015 In "News" By Akpokona Omafuaire‎ OTUOKE - IMMEDIATE Past President Goodluck Jonathan on Saturday, called for a total review of the whole concept of the card reader before the 2019 general elections. He made the call on Saturday after his accreditation at Otazi, Playground, Polling Unit 039, Ward 13, Otuoke, Ogbia LGA.… December 5, 2015 In "News"