Abia Warriors returned to winning ways in the Nigeria Professional Football Matchday 5 fixtures League after defeating MFM FC 1-0 at the Umuahia Township Stadium on Sunday to end the Lagos-based club’s impressive start to the season. An early goal from Oghenetega Ebetomane was all Abia Warriors needed to take all three points against a resilient MFM team in a match where clear cut chances were rare to find. Abia Warriors got off to a flying start in the sixth minute as Zinte Udeh dazzled past three players to perfectly set up Oghenetega Ebetomane who slotted in the ball into the back of the net to send the home crowd into delight. From then onwards it was a match with little or no clear cut chances though MFM FC had plenty of possession but failed to utilize it. However one should commend Abia Warriors who were able to grind out the result though they played badly. Emmanuel Deutsch, Abia Warriors FC manager after the game said: “A very difficult match. We just came back from Gombe yesterday (Saturday) and the boys were able to show good character. I think it is this kind of matches that you know whether your team is good enough to challenge in the league as we didn’t play well but we were able to get the result.” Tonu Bulus, his MFM counterpart reacted after the game, saying: “It’s a very good match, at times you win, at times you lose. So today was a case of losing. We will go back and work on our lapses ad hopefully we will come back stronger.” Abia Warriors 1-0 MFM
Shots (on target): 12(3) – 9(4)
Blocked Shots: 3-2
Offsides: 3-5
Corners: 4-5
Fouls: 11-8
Yellow card: 1-1
Red card: 0-0 Source: npfl.ng Vanguard News Fidelis Ilechukwu, Head Coach, MFM Football Club, Lagos says the club’s game against Nasarawa United on Sunday is a must win to ensure the club August 30, 2017 In "Sports" By Temisan Amoye, Lagos The Nigerian Professional Football League, NPFL returned for the opening weekend of the 2019/2020 NPFL season. Two games, Enyimba vs Nasarawa United and Rangers vs Sunshine Stars were postponed due to Enyimba and Rangers’ CAF Confederation Cup games on Sunday. With the two Nigerian teams going… November 4, 2019 In "Sports" This weekend, the race on all fronts in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) takes the driving seat with a finely-balanced contest between MFM FC and Akwa United set for the Centre of Excellence, Lagos on Sunday. May 20, 2017 In "Sports"