RED Star Express Plc is in the stock market to raise N1.3 billion fresh capital by way of rights issue to existing shareholders. The company is offering 336,855,291 ordinary shares of 50 Kobo each at N4 on the basis of four new ordinary shares for every seven shares held as at August 2019. The offer opened on Monday, November 11, 2019. Speaking on the rights issue at the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, weekend, the Group Managing Director of Red Star Express Plc, Dr. Sola Obabori, disclosed that the additional capital is to accentuate the growth potentials already put in place. He said the additional capital would be deployed to finance the expansion of the company’s current operations, the deployment of modern technology and improvement of its working capital. “This move underlines our ambition to maintain the expansion activities undertaken in the last few years. After opening international offices in Niger Republic, Burkina Faso and Benin Republic, we have established new business lines in the agricultural and technological sectors of the economy. This right issue represents the next logical step in this regard,” he stated. “With this additional capital, we will be able to ensure considerable growth in the company, making it more profitable and in a position to continue fulfilling the promise of providing superior returns,” he added. Vanguard AGAINST the backdrop of economic woes which significantly impacted the Nigerian capital market in 2016 recording zero capital raise, companies quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, have begun to take opportunities occasioned by increased investors’ confidence to raise fresh funds to meet operational and investment needs July 24, 2017 In "Finance" Linkage Assurance Plc has secured the approval of its shareholders to increase the authorized share capital of the company from N7.5 billion to N15 billion by the creation of additional 30,000,000,000 billion ordinary shares at 50 kobo each. November 5, 2019 In "Business" PROMPTED by increased investor confidence in the Nigerian economy, especially in the stock market, positive economic growth outlook, fourteen companies quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE raised N340.6 billion via Rights Issues in 2017, in preparation for boom in economic activities in the post recession era. January 8, 2018 In "Business"