Mr Ade Omole, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) has assured Kogi people that Gov. Yahaya Bello, will do better in his second term in office. Omole, who is the leader of the UK chapter of the APC, said on Monday, in Abuja, while reacting to Bello`s re-election at the just concluded Nov. 16, Kogi governorship poll. “Bello will do even better in his second term in office by delivering democracy dividends to the people of Kogi; I see him being more focused and determined this time around,’’ he said. He expressed happiness that the people of Kogi were not deterred by negative propaganda against Bello ahead of the elections, saying that they voted their conscience. Omole thanked the people of the state for voting the APC and re-electing Bello for a second term in office, adding that they should have faith in the party. He stressed that the APC meant well for Nigerians both at the national and state levels, saying they should have faith and work with the party to enthrone good governance in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), recalls that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), had declared Bello winner of the election with a total of 406, 222 votes to defeat his closest rival, Musa Wada of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who polled 189,704 votes. The election result was announced by INEC`s Returning Officer, Prof. Ibrahim Umar. The PDP`s agent, however, refused to sign the results declared by INEC. The PDP had, on Sunday, dissociated itself from the result, with Wada, its candidate at the election alleging irregularities and voter intimidation as their reasons. The party also described the figures announced by INEC as “fictitious’’ and therefore unacceptable. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Boluwaji Obahopo, Lokoja The Kogi Elite Movement for Bello/Onoja re-election had predicted a landslide victory for the All Progressive Congress, (APC)  governorship candidate, Alhaji Yahaya Bello and his running mate, Edward Onoja in the November 16 election in the state. Speaking yesterday during a solidarity rally held in Okene,… October 27, 2019 In "News" WITH Governor Yahaya Bello’s declaration, penultimate week to seek re-election, the political firmament is astir in Kogi State. May 17, 2019 In "News" A Lokoja-based businessman and chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Fancy Jimoh Tiamiyu, has hailed the efforts of Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, towards revolutionizing the agricultural sector in the state. Tiamiyu, the Director-General for Kogi Local Government Area (LGA) APC Bello-Onoja campaign organization, gave the commendation while… September 28, 2019 In "Agric"