The Cooperative Rating and Award Society of Nigeria (CRASoN), has said its members have contributed over One trillion Naira to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) between 2016 and 2019. Sanwo-Olu charges religious bodies on tolerance(Opens in a new browser tab) CRASoN’s President, Mr. Victor Oyegoke  disclosed this at a national symposium on the growth of cooperative societies which held in Abuja yesterday. He said, “Within the last three years, from our survey, players in the cooperative society subsector of the economy have contributed over one trillion naira to the GDP. “We have over N950bn combined share capital, and have created more than 600,000 jobs, directly and indirectly for citizens of this nation.” Oyegoke however called on the Federal Government to increase its support to the sub-sector; lamenting the neglect of cooperative societies as major drivers of microeconomic growth. He also called for a deliberate policy to drive public enlightenment and education on the values and importance of cooperative societies as a means of economic empowerment for the people. Meanwhile, over 40 cooperative societies and individuals received special recognition awards at the symposium for their outstanding contributions to national development within the last 12 months. Explaining the rationale behind the awards, CRASoN’s Secretary, Victoria Akpan said the special recognition was part of efforts to celebrate those who have being exemplary in the quest for transparency and excellence in the sub-sector. FG tasks stockbrokers to initiate policy proposal(Opens in a new browser tab) “We are concerned with promoting cooperative identity and underscoring the contributions of cooperatives to Nigeria’s environmental sustainability and its socio-cultural and economic development,” she added. Vanguard The Cooperative Rating and Award Society of Nigeria (CRASoN), a value based organisation that focuses on monitoring and tracking cooperative performance, capabilities and its economic impacts in Nigeria has reminded the federal and state governments as well as private entities the need to commit financial resources into cooperative ventures that… November 30, 2018 In "Business" LAGOS—AGAINST the background of Nigeria’s economic vulnerability, President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote has stated that the current efforts of the Federal Government at diversifying the economy to an agriculture-centered ecoomy remain the viable solution to creating a healthy economy. December 3, 2018 In "News" A leading player in the elevator and escalator market, Xizi Elector has remained unbeaten so far in Nigerian market. Based on this, Eliel Jerahmeal Nigeria Limited, specialist in marketing, distribution, sales and services of elevator and escalator equipment obtained authorisation from Xizi Elevator, China’s first class manufacturers of elevator and escalator… November 30, 2018 In "Business"