Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi on Sunday commended Dangote Group for setting up a rice mill in the state, saying it would create employment and boost the economy. Bagudu who visited the factory site at Saminaka in Shanga Local Government Area of the state, said the investment would also rack up the rice value chain and add value to local farmers. Governor Bagudu during his visit to the Dangote factory site announced in a statement on Sunday in Birnin Kebbi by his Press Secretary, Abubakar Dakingari. Facilities for the factory, which will have 32 silos are being installed as at the time of the visit by Bagudu, who was accompanied by legislators and top government officials. “I must commend Dangote Group of Companies especially Alhaji Aliko Dangote for initiating the project in Kebbi State. “This will go a long way in providing employment to our youth as well as boosting the economy of the state and Nigeria at large“, he said. Bagudu used the opportunity to invite more investors to Kebbi to set up more factories. Similarly, the governor made a stopover at a local rice mill in Yauri where he interacted with some women processing local rice. The women told the governor that the price of rice has fallen which according to them was an indication that the Federal Government’s rice initiative is working. Vanguard News Nigeria. DANGOTE Group of companies is set to construct a rice mill in Raha town of Bunza Local Government Area of Kebbi State to boost rice production in the North-West region of the country. March 21, 2018 In "News" BIRNIN KEBBI—DANGOTE Group of companies is set to construct a rice mill in Raha town of Bunza Local Government Area of Kebbi State to boost rice production in the North-West region of the country. March 21, 2018 In "News" Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on yesterday said the state government will consider the possibilities of collaborating with Kebbi State to explore the economic opportunities in the production and distribution of high yield quality rice and other ventures. September 19, 2015 In "News"