Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, yesterday said he was happy that Justice Chioma Nwosu Iheme, of the Edo Court of Appeal, has been released by her abductors. The Ihedioha’s Senior Special Assistant on Public Enlightenment, Eze Ugochukwu, stated this in Owerri. Vanguard has been monitoring the development following the day Justice Iheme, was kidnapped, on the 30th of October, 2019 along Agbo/Benin road. In that incident, Iheme’s police orderly was said to have been shot dead by the abductors. Since then, Justice Iheme has been in the abductors’ den for over two weeks until she was released. Her abduction by suspected gunmen had triggered reactions from different stakeholders including the traditional rulers and the Nigeria Bar Association, NBA, among others. However, in a brief remark, the office of the Public Enlightenment said: “Following two weeks of ordeal in the hands of her kidnappers, Her Lordship Chioma Nwosu Iheme has been released. “His Excellency, the Governor of Imo State, has been at the vanguard of the manhunt for her kidnappers and other national security efforts to arrest and punish the culprits.” Vanguard News ....Cancels ceremonial activities in community By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri The Imo state traditional rulers yesterday, cried out to the federal government of Nigeria, over the abduction of Justice Chioma Nwosu Iheme, by gunmen along Benin/Agbo road last week. The Chairman of the royal fathers, Eze Imo, Samuel Ohiri, alongside his… November 5, 2019 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie - Owerri The Justice of Court of Appeal, Owerri Imo State, Justice Nwosu Iheme, has been abducted. The abduction of Justice Iheme was confirmed to Vanguard in Owerri by the Owerri branch of the Nigeria Bar Association, NBA, Demian Nosike. ALSO READ: Imo police alert public on… October 31, 2019 In "News" IT was a great day for Nigeria and its international image recently when one of the top ten cities in the United States of America, the City of Miami, received Nigeria’s Justice Chioma Nwosu-Iheme of the Federal Court of Appeal, an erudite scholar who is the first female doctorate degree… November 9, 2015 In "News"