Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) has assured of its commitment to sustainable socio-economic development of oil rich communities in Ondo State. It, however, appealed to leaders of community based organisations such as the Amalgamation of Ilaje Ugbo Coastal Communities (AMAICCOMA) to build bridges with stakeholders in the community (Ugbo) to achieve peace in the communities. The General Manager, Policy, Government, and Public Affairs, PGPA, of CNL, Mr. Brikini Esimaje stated this during the 2019 Annual General Meeting (AGM) of AMAICCOMA held in Ugbo. Esimaje noted that with sustained peace in the communities, development would be enhanced. Speaking through CNL PGPA, Superintendent, Tony Emegere, he challenged the leadership of the association to fast track the Mother and Child Healthcare Centre project to ensure quality health care delivery for benefitting communities. Lauding the achievements of the new leadership of the association, Esimaje said that it “reinforced our belief that a process that is community-driven can stimulate quicker community development than processes and system designed without effective participation of community members”. The Chairman of AMAICCOMA, Taiwo Orisabinone, said the body had succeeded in carrying out free medical health service for the aged and children, constructed wooden bridges and jetties in 40 communities in the area under the GMoU mandate. He said that plans were in top gear to partner some foreign firms to provide potable water for the communities. Orisabinone, while raising the alarm over ocean incursion in the oil rich communities, said, “We humbly appeal to CNL to assist us to arrest perennial sea incursion into our land”. Vanguard The General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs, PGPA, Mr. Esimaje Brikinn has emphasized the value of participatory partnerships in combating the menace of oil theft and pipeline vandalism in oil and gas operations in the Niger- Delta. Brikinn stated this while contributing to the panel discussion on: Innovative Strategies… July 10, 2018 In "Energy" TWO Egbema, Gbaramatu youths, among teeming protesters, were held yesterday, by a joint military and police personnel at the Warri office of Chevron Nigeria Limited, during a protest called by the people, which was quelled by gunshots from the security operatives. June 29, 2017 In "News" GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has commissioned 54 projects executed by the Itsekiri Regional Development Committee, IRDC and funded by the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture. April 10, 2019 In "News"