POWERGEN Renewable Energy (PowerGen), a leader in micro-utilities in Africa – managing mini-grids and providing customer support – has signed a deal with funding from Shell’s New Energies business, as well as Omidyar Network, Acumen, Renewable Energy Performance Platform (REPP), EDFI ElectriFI, Sumitomo Corporation, DOB Equity, and Micro-grid Catalytic Capital Partners (MCCP). Nigeria and climate change(Opens in a new browser tab) In a statement sent to Vanguard, All On stated: “The funding will strengthen PowerGen’s position in its core African markets Kenya, Tanzania, Sierra Leone and Nigeria, and help it expand into new ones, as the demand for reliable, clean and affordable electricity in Africa continues to grow. PowerGen aims to connect one million more people to reliable electricity over the next five years, before accelerating its reach in future. “Over 600 million people in Africa lack access to electricity, of which approximately 80per cent live in rural areas (according to the International Energy Agency). PowerGen has been one of the pioneers of the private utility sector in Africa, delivering affordable, reliable and clean electricity to underserved Africans through modern, sustainable mini-grids.” New tech fuelling revolution in Internet world, says Omoniyi, VDT boss(Opens in a new browser tab) It added: “It also provides ongoing customer support through dedicated maintenance and customer services. This approach is, in turn, helping to reduce poverty by supporting economic development and contributing to a clean electricity system in Africa.” Vanguard Nigeria cannot overcome its insufficient electricity supply unless she embraces micro-grid solution, Senior Application Leader, Micro-grid Energy Systems, Eaton Technologies, a South African power solutions company, Bunty Kiremire has said. November 20, 2018 In "Energy" There’s excruciating pain across the country as Nigeria’s electricity supply continues to relapse to as low as 3,000 megawatts. This is against the 40,000 megawatts the country requires to function optimally. July 10, 2019 In "News" Nigerian off-grid energy investment company, All On, has announced financial close with three firms for accelerated access to affordable and sustainable energy sources in the Niger Delta. February 20, 2018 In "Energy"