The House of Representatives on Thursday permitted the military to go ahead with the Operation Positive Identification exercise in the country. The Reps agreed that the Army should regularly brief the Committee on Army led by Mr Abdurazak Namdas, for proper assessment of the exercise In general, the House resolved, “That the Army can continue with the OPI but in collaboration with other relevant security agencies such as the Nigeria Immigration Service and the Nigeria Police Force, who should take the lead in the identification process. “That a joint intelligence and monitoring team should be set up by the agencies involved in order to checkmate possible abuse of the exercise, such as extortion and assault on the people. “That the Army should regularly brief the Committee on Army for proper assessment of the exercise. “That the Nigerian Army should disengage from the areas they have successfully completed operations and allow the Police to consolidate on the gains. “That serious and urgent attention should be given to the police in the area of training and retraining so as to equip them to curtail future insurrection or violence that may occur.” Vanguard Nigeria News Tordue Salem - Abuja The House of Representatives on Tuesday summoned the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, after it rejected the army operation to “identify true citizens” of the country. The operation code-named by the Nigerian Army as "Operation Positive Identification,” was rejected on the floor of… October 29, 2019 In "News" ABUJA — Various groups and notable persons yesterday rose against bid by the Nigerian Army to get all citizens identify themselves in a planned exercise tagged Operation Positive Identification, OPI, just as the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, yesterday told the House of Representatives that the Army’s… November 1, 2019 In "News" The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Rep. Ndudi Elumelu, (PDP) has raised concerns over the planned nationwide implementation of Operation Positive Identification (OPI) by the Nigeria Army. In a statement on Monday, Elumelu said that it was a recipe for possible militarization of the country. ALSO READ: Reps Minority… October 29, 2019 In "News"