Apple Inc asked the Trump administration to waive tariffs on Chinese-made Apple Watches, iPhone components and other consumer products, according to company filings with the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office. The company on Thursday sought tariff exclusions from 11 products, including HomePod speakers, iMac computers, parts for use in repairing iPhones, iPhone smart battery cases, AirPods and others. The public has until Nov. 14 to submit comments on the requests. Apple told the U.S. Trade Representative’s Office the products were consumer electronic devices and “not strategically important or related to ‘Made in China 2025’ or other Chinese industrial programs.” The exclusions seek relief from 15% tariffs that took effect on Sept. 1. The company added that “while Fitbit is aware of facilities currently producing such devices in Taiwan and South Korea, these facilities are fully owned by, or otherwise contracted to, Fitbit competitors that use them for their own branded production, rendering them unavailable to Fitbit.” Alphabet Inc announced Friday it has reached a deal to acquire Fitbit. Apple submitted the requests on the first day the Trump administration began accepting them. An Apple spokesman did not immediately comment. Apple’s wearables and accessories business – which includes the Apple Watch, AirPods and HomePod – brought in $24.5 billion in its fiscal 2019 ended in September or about 9.4% of Apple’s revenue. Sales in the segment were up 41% versus the prior year, and the devices have become an important driver of Apple’s business as iPhone sales declined for the past four straight quarters. Christie’s Inc has asked the administration waive tariffs on Chinese sculptures, statues, paintings, antique furniture and silverware and other collectible items. Sea Eagle Boats Inc submitted requests to waive tariffs on inflatable stand up paddleboards. Source: Reuters Vanguard News The world’s most influential consumer electronics company shed 44 billion dollars of market value  after a pair of pronouncements from Beijing and Washington cast a spotlight on its massive Chinese production base, from which almost all of the world’s iPhones are made. August 26, 2019 In "News" China has vowed imminent countermeasures in the escalating trade war between it and Donald Trump’s America as it also condemned the administration’s plans to slap tariffs on about $50 billion of Chinese industrial and hi-tech products. April 4, 2018 In "News" U.S. President Donald Trump has directed aides to proceed with tariffs on about another $200 billion of Chinese goods, despite Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin’s attempts to restart trade talks with China, a source familiar with the matter said. September 15, 2018 In "News"