IN a bid to be in line with the global best practices in the maritime industry, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, plans to reduce vessel turnaround times at the ports and terminals in order to minimize logjams which have generated negative effects on the entire system chain. The Agency is also gearing towards improving on the draught capacity by dredging the existing ports to widen the scope of vessels which can safely berth without the need for ship-to-ship transfers at sea. Ship-to-ship transfers Disclosing this during the four-day Oil Trading and Logistics Expo (OTL, 2019) conference, recently held in Lagos, Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA, Dakuku Peterside, who spoke during a session with the theme, ”Ship to Shore and Efficiency of Shipping Petroleum and Crude Oil Cargo,” noted that the Agency, will put in place ports handling specific cargoes, as obtained in world-leading ports, which will greatly improve service delivery and efficiency. The NIMASA boss, who was represented by Assistant Director, Surveillance, Captain David Oboma, also added that these measures must be given serious consideration to improve on the service delivery, as well as eradicating all the backlashes in the entire system. He stated: “In line with global best practices, there are several measures that we should give serious consideration if we are to improve upon the efficiency of our industry. “Firstly, we must reduce vessel turnaround times at our ports and terminals to minimize logjams, which have a negative effect on the entire system chain. “The introduction of dedicated ports to handle specific cargoes, as obtains in world-leading ports, would also greatly improve on our service delivery and efficiency.” Peterside, however, urged every stakeholder in the maritime industry to embrace safety management, which, according to him, is the key to be considered in shore to ship operations. “As we are planning on improving upon the draught capacity by dredging our existing ports to widen the scope of vessels which can berth, this will help to eradicate the need for ship-to-ship transfers at sea. “However, in striving for efficiency, we must not forget safety as a key consideration in shore to ship operations”, he concluded. With construction of three deep sea ports in the country, Nigeria is opening up its waters for trade with the rest of the world. These ports, located in Lagos and Akwa Ibom states, are the efforts of a public private partnership aimed at increasing revenue generation, creating employment and increasing… July 11, 2018 In "Maritime Report" Ship owners in the country have frowned at the multiplicity of agencies calling at visiting ships contrary to global practices. August 1, 2018 In "Maritime Report" THE Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has reopened three jetties and port facilities recently closed due to non-compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. December 29, 2016 In "Business"