British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Friday said that Britain would leave the EU by Jan. 31 at the latest if his Conservative Party wins a majority in the election in two weeks’ time. “If we can get a working majority then we will come on Jan. 31 at the absolute latest,” Johnson said. He also repeated his message that he saw no reason why Britain would need to extend the transition period after Brexit beyond the end of 2020. Asked if he would rather be prime minister or have Britain leave the EU, he replied: “I would rather get us out of the EU. I can tell you that.” Similarly, Johnson said that he would not say how many children he had, saying that he would not “put them on the pitch” ahead of the Dec. 12 election. “I love my children very much, but they are not standing at this election, and I am not, therefore, going to comment,” said Johnson, whose colorful love life has attracted tabloid attention in the past. “I am not going to put them on to the pitch in this election.” When asked if he was going to have more children, Johnson, 55, who is living at Downing Street with his partner Carrie Symonds after separating from his wife last year, said: “I’m not going to get into discussions (on this).” vanguard Prime Minister Boris Johnson suffered a major parliamentary defeat over his Brexit strategy on Tuesday, which could delay Britain's exit from the European Union next month and force an early election. September 3, 2019 In "News" Boris Johnson arrived at Buckingham Palace on Wednesday to formally take up his duties as Britain's new prime minister after Theresa May tendered her resignation, AFP reporters saw. July 24, 2019 In "News" British lawmakers demanded Monday that Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government release officials’ correspondence about plans for Brexit, as the government prepared to suspend Parliament and send rebellious lawmakers home until two weeks before the country is supposed to leave the European Union. Lawmakers used the remaining hours before the session… September 9, 2019 In "Foreign"