United States poultry exports to China are projected to exceed 1 billion dollars annually as a result of Beijing’s decision to lift a ban on poultry imports from the U.S., the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) said. The U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement on Thursday that the U.S. welcomed China’s decision to lift its “unwarranted ban” on U.S. poultry. The lifting of the ban is “great news for both America’s farmers and China’s consumers,” Lighthizer said. The Chinese decision to lift the ban was announced two weeks ago as part of negotiations on a broader trade deal between the U.S. and China. According to him, China is an important export market for U.S. poultry farmers. “And we estimate they will now be able to export more than 1 billion dollars worth of poultry and poultry products each year to China,” he added. He said that the reopening of the Chinese market to U.S. poultry producers would create new export opportunities and support thousands of U.S. jobs. China banned all U.S. poultry beginning in Jan. 2015 due to an avian influenza outbreak in Dec. 2014. Lighthizer said that the U.S. had been free of the disease since Aug. 2017. The U.S., according to the representative, exported more than 500 million dollars worth of poultry products to China in 2013. Vanguard News Nigeria. The U.S. Trade Representative’s office (USTR) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) on Tuesday said Morocco has lifted the ban and agreed to accept imports of American poultry products for the first time. August 7, 2018 In "News" China will lift punitive tariffs imposed on U.S. soybeans and pork in a trade war with Washington, a state news agency said Friday, adding to conciliatory gestures by the two sides ahead of negotiations. China will suspend tariff hikes on soybeans, pork and some other farm goods, the Xinhua News… September 13, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States and China agreed on Friday to the first phase of a deal to end a trade war, prompting President Donald Trump to suspend a threatened tariff hike, but officials said the agreement had to be put on paper and more work was required to get it finalized.… October 12, 2019 In "Foreign"