The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu was on Thursday presented an award of excellence by the Oodua Youth Parliament (OYP). The award was presented to Magu at an event which was part of the National Youth Summit themed: Role of South in Nation building organised by the group and held at Arewa House Kaduna. According to a press release made available to the media by Wilson Uwujaren, EFCC, Head, Media & Publicity, the award was presented to the commission’s acting chairman in recognition of his contributions in the fight against corruption, especially cybercrime in the country. Magu who was represented by Kanu Idagu, Head Advance Fee Fraud Section, EFCC Headquarters, Abuja presented a paper entitled, Anti-corruption and Cybercrime. In the paper, Magu observed the prevalence of corruption and cyber crime in poor nations. “There is no country that is totally free from corruption, the incidences of corruption/cyber crime are on the increase especially in poor and underdeveloped states. “However, to win this war everyone including the youths must rise to the occasion in order to drastically reduce this cankerworm,” he said. He thanked the organisers for finding him worthy of the honour. Vanguard News Nigeria. Mr Ibrahim Magu, acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has called for anti-corruption initiatives at the grassroots level. October 18, 2017 In "News" The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu has conferred on the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, the honour of ‘Anti-Corruption Ambassador’. The anti-graft agency boss awarded the newly appointed NYSC DG with the prestigious award on Monday… July 16, 2019 In "News" The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu, on Thursday said the anti-graft agency had secured 187 convictions in the last one year. November 10, 2016 In "News"