The Lagos State government has said that negotiations are still ongoing with labour unions in the state over the implementation of the new minimum wage. The Permanent Secretary, Office of Establishments and Training, Mr Biodun Bamgboye, made the disclosure in a statement issued on Saturday, in Lagos. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Chairman of the state Joint Public Service Negotiating Council (JNC), Mr Rasaq Falade, had said that necessary terms of settlement and agreement were reached at the end of the meeting held on Nov. 15. However, Bamgboye said that the process of minimum wage negotiations with labour was still one, adding that the best modalities to implement it were being looked into. He said that any agreement reached with the labour unions would be made public through government-recognised communication channels. The permanent secretary assured public servants in the state that the outcome of the minimum wage negotiations would represent their best interest. He reiterated that the Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu-led administration was committed to enhancing the welfare of workers in the state. ”Being a people-oriented government, we are committed to ensuring better service delivery through a competent and motivated workforce,” the permanent secretary said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Lagos State government has said that negotiations are still ongoing with labour unions in the state over the implementation of the new minimum wage. November 16, 2019 In "News" The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu says the state will pay its workers above the N30,000 new national Minimum Wage. October 15, 2019 In "News" Following the agreement reached between the Lagos State Joint Public Service Negotiating Council, JNC, and Lagos State Government, Friday, November 15, all arrangements have been concluded to commence the payment of the new minimum wage and the consequential adjustment rates to public workers in the November 2019 salary cycle. November 15, 2019 In "News"