The United States President, Donald Trump, launched an attack at Democrats witness through his twitter account. Marie Yovanovitch is a former US Ambassador to Ukraine between 2016 and 2019. She took to the witness stand during the Trump’s impeachment inquiry hearings on Friday. Trump in his tweets challenged the integrity of Yovanovitch. “Everywhere Marie Yovanovitch went turned bad,” Trump tweeted. He also claimed the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy spoke unfavourably of her. “She started off in Somalia, how did that go?” In reaction, the US House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff described the US president’s tweet as “witness intimidation”. He dismissed accusations of witness intimidation and accused the Democrats of being nontransparent. “The Republicans have been treated very badly,” Trump said Friday. He said Democrats were not allowing Republicans to ask questions or have witnesses, and he called the hearings “a disgrace.” The president is demonstrating that he’s not intimidated, said Vanessa Beasley, who teaches presidential rhetoric at Vanderbilt University. “He’s trying to communicate that he’s untouchable, that he will not be stopped,” VOA reported her to have stated. Vanguard News Nigeria. U.S. Energy Secretary Rick Perry, a member of President Donald Trump’s Cabinet who has played a pivotal role in the Ukraine controversy, will refuse to testify as requested next week in the Democratic-led impeachment inquiry against Trump, an Energy Department spokeswoman said on Friday. Perry’s refusal represented the latest instance… November 2, 2019 In "Foreign" Lawyers for the United States CIA officer whose whistleblower complaint helped ignite an impeachment inquiry into the United States President, Donald Trump have asked Congress whether their client could submit testimony in writing instead of appearing in person, according to people familiar with the matter. The request reflects concerns about… October 11, 2019 In "Foreign" The former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine on Friday told a House of Representatives impeachment inquiry into President Donald Trump that Trump ousted her based on “unfounded and false claims” after she had come under attack by his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani. Marie Yovanovitch, the ambassador who was abruptly recalled from… October 13, 2019 In "Foreign"