THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Youth Network has cautioned against the deployment of the military for electoral purposes during the November 16, 2019 governorship election in Bayelsa State. The Secretary General of the PDPYN, Comrade James Oputin, alleged that the soldiers had shown bias by their antecedents during previous elections. Psychiatrists want research in mental health for better treatment outcomes(Opens in a new browser tab) Oputin recalled that gunmen in military uniform shot and killed a Government House Photographer, Mr. Reginald Dei and a PDP Ward leader in Oweikorogha, Southern Ijaw Local Government Area on Election Day on February 23, 2019. He alleged that soldiers connived with APC thugs to cart away election materials and aided the wildest rigging in Bayelsa history which gave the party its victory in the last senatorial election. He said that the PDPYN and the Bayelsa people, who have not forgotten the incident and other acts of bias inked to the Army, are indeed wary of the deployment of soldiers. Oputin advised the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, against the planned use of soldiers for suspicious intent inimical to the credibility of the commission and the electoral process in Bayelsa. He called on the human rights organization such as the Amnesty International, the Civil Liberty Organisation, the civil society world and the international community to stand in defence of the right of the Bayelsa people to elect their leaders without threat of assassination and molestation. Bayelsa/Kogi elections: INEC’s needless alarm(Opens in a new browser tab) Oputin said that INEC “has a responsibility to adhere strictly by the electoral law by allowing the police to lead security provision during the election” adding that “anything short of that would amount to the execution of the plot to subvert the will of the people through electoral manipulation and fraud with the aid of the Army.” However, Oputin said that “INEC could use the services of the Nigerian Navy to escort election materials as the personnel of the Navy displayed noticeable professionalism and good conduct during the last election.” Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party Youth Network, PDPYN, has warned that it would resist any attempt to hand over the candidacy of the party to politicians who abandoned it for the All Progressive Congress and who were defeated in 2015. July 7, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party Youth Network has commended the members of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly for their display of maturity and firmness in effecting a leadership of the Assembly on Monday. September 30, 2019 In "News" NATIONAL leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP yesterday asked President Muhummadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress, APC not to truncate the nation’s democracy by planning to manipulate the Bayelsa State Gubernatorial election against the wishes of the people, just as it cautioned the federal government against alleged moves… December 11, 2015 In "News"