Wolves took the West Midlands bragging rights as they beat Aston Villa 2-1 in the Premier League, extending their unbeaten run to seven top-flight games. It was a terrible first half for Aston Villa, who were forced into two substitutions due to injury. The first was inside seven minutes as Jed Steer was taken off, before Ruben Neves’ (41) fine finish deservedly put Wolves ahead. Matt Targett then picked up an eye injury in added time and was unable to continue as two of Dean Smith’s three changes were used before the break. Villa performed better in the second half but just as they were getting on top, Raul Jimenez (84) swept home to double Wolves’ lead, scoring in a third successive game in all competitions. It was a nervy finish for the hosts too as goal-line technology awarded Trezeguet a 92nd-minute goal, but Villa could not complete the comeback. The win sees Wolves extend their unbeaten Premier League run to seven games – the first time they have done so in England’s top flight since 1974 – and sends them into eighth on 16 points. Aston Villa remain in 17th and have now lost their last three league games. Source: Sky Sports Vanguard News Manchester United missed the chance to start the New Year on top of the Premier League after suffering a 3-2 defeat to Blackburn as Arsenal went fourth after Chelsea crashed 3-1 at home to Aston Villa December 31, 2011 In "Sports" Wolves came from behind to win 2-1 away to Slovan Bratislava to move up into the qualification spots in Europa League Group K. Romain Saiss' long-range shot and Raul Jimenez's penalty turned the game around in the second half as Slovan lost for the first time in their new stadium,… October 25, 2019 In "Sports" By Temisan Amoye, Lagos The Premier League returned for Matchday 11, with a lunchtime kick-off which saw Man United lose by a lone goal to Bournemouth. League hopefuls Liverpool and Man City had to dig deep to avoid disappointment. And it wrapped up with Chelsea securing an away win at… November 3, 2019 In "Sports"