Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi state, on Wednesday, presented a budget of N138 billion for 2020 to the state House of Assembly. Presenting the budget, Bagudu said out of the amount, N86.7 billion was for capital expenditure while N51.1 billion was for recurrent expenditure. The News Agency Nigeria (NAN), reports that the state 2019 budget was N151billion. Bagudu, who did not give sectoral breakdown of the budget, said the N51 billion recurrent expenditure comprised; personnel cost of N38 billion and overhead cost of N13 billion. He said priority would be accorded to the education sector towards reducing out of school children in the state. “In terms of infrastructure, we will give emphasis to construction of roads in towns and villages across the state as well as provision of houses in the state capital and major towns. “We will continue to diversify and invest heavily in order to move our state forward, hence our 2020 budget is for continuity and continuous reforms and investments,” he said. In his remarks, the Speaker, Alhaji Abdulmumini Kamba, assured that the House would ensure thorough scrutiny and speedy passage of the budget. Kamba also assured that the House would ensure sustained cordial working relationship with other arms of government in the state. Vanguard Nigeria News Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi state, on Wednesday signed the state 2019 N151 billion budget into law. February 20, 2019 In "News" Kebbi Governor, Abubakar Bagudu has promised to construct more roads and provide social amenities across the 21 local government areas of the state. Bagudu made the promise while briefing newsmen on Tuesday in Birnin Kebbi, on Nigeria’s Independence Day celebration. He pledged his administration’s commitment to construct more roads, build… October 2, 2019 In "News" Gov. Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State has pledged to make provision in the 2020 budget to tackle cancer diseases and increase more awareness on preventive measures against the scourge in the state. Bagudu affirmed this when members of the Roche Products Nigeria visited him in Birnin Kebbi on Monday.… September 16, 2019 In "Health"