Bolivia’s former president, Evo Morales, was flying to Mexico on Tuesday after fleeing his South American homeland, seeking refuge under a leftist government that has supported the veteran socialist in the wake of a disputed election. Bolivia’s first indigenous president came under Mexico’s protection after he departed Bolivia late on Monday on a Mexican Air Force jet, Mexico’s Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said. “His life and integrity are safe,” Ebrard wrote on Twitter, after warning Morales was in danger and saying Mexico would offer asylum as part of its long tradition of sheltering exiles. The Mexican government’s support has helped cement its emerging role as a bastion of diplomatic support for left-wing leaders in Latin America. Morales, who governed for 14 years, said on Twitter he was thankful to Mexico but saddened to leave Bolivia for political reasons, following weeks of violent protests and unrest. In a photo tweeted by Ebrard, Morales is seated alone on the jet with a downcast, unsmiling expression, displaying Mexico’s red, white and green flag across his lap. Morales’ government collapsed on Sunday after ruling party allies quit and the army urged him to step down, a tactic that Mexico’s government said it views as a “coup” because it broke with Bolivia’s constitutional order. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador praised Morales for the decision to resign rather than put the lives of Bolivians at risk. His departure added to a sense of crisis in Latin America, which has been hit by weeks of unrest in countries such as Ecuador and Chile, where protesters are urging governments to step back from policies raising fuel and transport prices. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Mexico’s government views the resignation of Bolivia’s president as a coup because the Bolivian military had broken with the constitution by pressing him to stand down, Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said on Monday. “It’s a coup because the army requested the resignation of the president, and that violates the… November 11, 2019 In "Foreign" Former Bolivian president, Evo Morales, has accepted an offer of political asylum in Mexico a day after leaving office amid election fraud protests. In a tweet, he said it hurts to be leaving Bolivia but he would return with more "strength and energy.” Mexico's Foreign Minister, Marcelo Ebrard, confirmed Mr.… November 12, 2019 In "News" Mexican Foreign Secretary Marcelo Ebrard said Thursday that Mexico's government doesn't agree with an "astonishing" US Supreme Court order that would block migrants from countries other than Mexico and Canada from applying for asylum at US borders. Speaking at President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador's daily news conference, Ebrard said that… September 13, 2019 In "Foreign"