 ABUJA – Department of State Services (DSS) has said that it is ready to release detained convener of the ‘Revolution Now’ movement, Omoyele Sowore. Sowore has remained in security custody despite fulfilling conditions for the bail granted him by a Federal High Court in Abuja. Supporters of the detained activist had stormed the DSS headquarters over the continued detention. They were, however, forced to abandon their demonstration when a truckload of DSS operatives arrived at the scene to disperse them using showers of grounded pepper and gunshots in the air. A journalist with The Guardian sustained injuries in the head and bruises on the right arm while several others; including pregnant women at the scene were manhandled by the operatives. Also, Items such as phones and video cameras were also seized and smashed by the security personnel. However, Peter Afunanya, spokesman of DSS, in a statement on Wednesday dismissed claims that operatives opened fire on protesters. According to him, the Service conducted itself as a “professional and responsible organisation.” He said the DSS initially allowed the protesters to gather but intervened when attempts were made to breach its facility. The statement reads, “The DSS wishes to state that its operatives did not open fire on alleged protesters who had stormed its facility on 12th November 2019. “As a normal global security practice, the operatives stood in defense of their facility when some group of persons made unruly attempts to forcefully break into the place and affect the release of Omoloye Sowore. “Despite serial and unwarranted provocations, the Service, as a professional and responsible Organisation, did not shoot at the so-called protesters. It could not have done so. “For emphasis, the Service reiterates its avowed readiness to release Sowore once the processes are concluded. It maintains that the appropriate persons have still not turned up to take delivery of Sowore” Vanguard A team of policemen and soldiers have, Monday, dispersed some members of the Members of the RevolutionNow movement who had converged on the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. August 5, 2019 In "News" The Department of State Services (DSS) has confirmed receiving the court order on the release of Omoyele Sowore, convener of the Revolution Now movement. November 8, 2019 In "News" The Department of State Service, DSS, yesterday approached the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, seeking leave to detain the convener of the RevolutionNow protest, Omoyele Sowore, for 90 days. August 7, 2019 In "Headlines"