Ilorin—No fewer than 1000 workers  and sympathizers   of a major distributor of local rice in Nigeria, Mount Olive Nigeria limited based in “Oja tuntun”(new market) Kwara State, yesterday trooped into the major streets of Ilorin to protest perceived illegal seizure of 704 bags of rice from the company by officials of the Nigerian Customs Service, NCS. Chairman of the company, Ademola  Julius, who was moved to tears while addressing journalists during the protest, also accused   Kwara State command of NCS of unlawful arrest and detention of his workers. He recalled that two years ago over 200 bags of rice were also illegally seized, but later released to him after they had been damaged by rain because they were kept inside a leaking warehouse.. New Enugu Immigration boss lauds Ugwuanyi on security(Opens in a new browser tab) According to him,,” In the last four years I have been supporting the cause of Nigeria rice to grow the economy but unfortunately men of the Nigerian Customs have been threatening my business. Men of the Nigerian Customs Services came to my warehouse around 2am and broke my door, tied my security man down and carted away  704 bags of Nigerian rice. I have over 10 trailers of purely local rice inside my warehouse. “Ask producers of local rice in Nigeria, Mount Olive Nigeria Ltd has been supporting them because I am the distributor of Nigerian rice in the whole South West. Nigeria customs just came to frustrate me. I have 480 staff working for me. I don’t know what they want from me. I pay my tax regularly. If they are saying I’m not doing my business in the proper way, what is the proper way they want me to follow?” “I have reported to the police that Customs men attacked my company unlawfully. That is why I’m protesting with my staff for Nigeria government to come to my aid. They said I should come and see the AGC today and when I got to their office they said he was not around. Three of my staff were locked up and they collected N50, 000 from me before they were released. One of my friends who also came was locked up.” “Nigerian Customs Service, Kwara State command should release all my rice unconditionally. Presidency should look into the matter, I have branches all over the country. My company is in 23 locations across the country. They should come and investigate. We are ready to cooperate with whoever want to come and investigate us. Contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Nigerian Customs Services, Kwara State Command, S.S. Okpo, confirmed that some rice were seized, but added that investigation was still on going on the matter. She said members of the press would be addressed at the end of the investigation. Vanguard Rice sellers in Sango-Ota market in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State yesterday, alleged that men of the Nigeria Customs Service, NCS, broke into their shops and carted away 18,000 bags of rice in the wee hours of the day. February 23, 2017 In "News" The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) says it has seized 497,279 bags of imported rice between 2015 and August, 2017 with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N3.8 billion. The Comptroller-General of the service, Col. Hameed Ali ( Rtd), disclosed the seizures in a document released in Abuja on Sunday October 8, 2017 In "News" LAST year January, Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, disclosed that the state has the largest number of illegal land border entries into the country. Amosun hinted that all the illegal borders scattered in some parts of Ogun West Senatorial District have been causing huge challenges to the state in… March 17, 2017 In "News"