Delta State Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has advised those agitating for the turn of  their tribe to produce the 2023 governor of Delta State to calm down, noting that  such early agitation could  distract and negatively affect  Governor  Ifeanyi Okowa’s performance. His advice is coming on the heels of the declaration by presidents of ethnic groups in Delta State who are already at daggers drawn over the senatorial district to take over from Okowa in 2023. Onuesoke, who gave the advise at Asaba International Airport on his way  to Abuja for environmental meeting said,  he expected people to discuss ethnic development as against ethnic leadership just as he queried  if rotation and ethnic control of government was the way forward for development He maintained  that  it was too premature to begin the battle of whose ethnic group the next Delta State governor will come from, adding that  if such continues, it will distract the sitting Governor Okowa from carrying out his good works for the well being of Delta people. Sanwo-Olu meets security chiefs, promises to revamp state security architecture(Opens in a new browser tab) He called for calm, noting that at the appropriate time, events will unfold and the senatorial district that will produce the governor will emerge. “What we needin the state is who can perform for the good of the people and  it is  not turn-by-turn.” “I wonder why people should start agitating for their ethnic  man to be governor when we just started a new term.  This will distract Okowa  from delivering full dividends of democracy to the people.  I will advise that the various ethnic groups should concentrate more on provision of dividends of democracy in their different zones instead of political leadership. Vanguard A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has advised those linking Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to the planned protest against former Governor Emmanuel Udughan to count the governor out of the action. January 28, 2017 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has commended Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa over his choice of political appointees describing them as persons of high intellect with vast experience. July 26, 2019 In "News" Delta State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has advised the Coordinator of Rescue Delta Media Group (RDMG) and All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Fred Oghenesivbe, to respect the office and person of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. January 30, 2016 In "News"