Popular Afropop singer, Kcee performed major hits live at “33” Export’s ‘City of Friends’ in Calabar last weekend.   Nigeria’s foremost beer brand, “33” Export Lager has unveiled its commemorative Limited edition label to mark its 40th anniversary at ‘City of Friends’ Calabar. The event starred some A-list artists, such as Kcee and MC Galaxy, both of whom are fan favorites in Calabar. Since 1979, “33” Export has been at the forefront of helping consumers to strengthen and build relationships. It was indeed a great celebration as loyal consumers relished the experience at the bespoke city known as the “City of Friends”. Breaking: Indonesian president announces relocation of new capital(Opens in a new browser tab) The ‘City of Friends’ provides consumers with a grand opportunity to come together, connect with friends and celebrate one another in an atmosphere of games, live comedy and live music. “ Thousands of consumers thronged into the venue that was dotted with ice-cold “33” Export stands to share the momentous experience as well as be the first set of consumers to witness the new label that authenticates the unrivaled quality of the great brand. Vanguard Nollywood actress, Yvonne Jegede who recently got divorced is now begging her old toasters to come back as she is now out of relationship. August 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" Alterplate Records owner and performing artiste Harrysong recently disclosed who the one friend he has is and  it is not his old singing partner and a friend of many years, Kcee. The 37 year old musician (whose real name is Harrison Tare Okiri) chose his childhood friend, Design, with whom… July 20, 2018 In "Music" “33” Export, a Nigerian breweries beer brand at the forefront of promoting the spirit of friendship, will be celebrating the World Friendship Day with consumers and their loved ones with its flagship consumer engagement activity the “City Of Friends.” This was announced at a well-attended press conference event at the… July 12, 2018 In "News"