Kano – Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II, has called on parents to give priority to education of their children, particularly the girl-child. ‎ The Emir made the call on Tuesday in Kano while addressing the people of the state during the traditional Hawan Daushe held at the State government House, Kano. ‎‎He urged political leader at all levels to give priority to female education as they did with their male counterparts. “The people need to prioritise their commitment towards the education of females just like their male counterpart,” he said. He enjoined Kano people to support each other and work as a team for the overall development of the state. Sanusi also restated the Emirate council’s support and cooperation for the development of the state. The monarch prayed for peace, stability and progress in the country and for the safe return of pilgrims from the holy land. The Emir called on the government to bring to an end kidnapping, banditry, poverty and other vices threatening the security of the country. Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano in his remarks restated his commitment to ensure peace and security in the state. The governor said that the state government had succeeded in using ICT to curb and track criminals and reduce crimes in the state. According to him, synergy between security agencies in the state has helped in maintaining peace in the state. Ganduje said that the state introduced free and compulsory education for primary and secondary school students in the state in other to reduce the number of out-of-school children in the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that among those that attended the ceremony were President of Guinea, Prof. Alpha Conde, Deputy Gov. Nasiru Gawuna; and the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Usman Alhaji.
Manchester City fined $379,000 for breaking transfer rules Also in attendance were members of State Assembly and National Assembly, traditional rulers and members of the Emirate council. NAN reports that security was tight during the prayer as armed policemen and other security personnel were deployed to various Eid grounds and other strategic places across the state to ensure peaceful celebration.(NAN )
Vanguard