An accident involving the convoy of Zamfara state Governor, Alhaji Bello Matawalle has claimed the lives of two police personnel attached to the governor. Yusuf Idris, the Director-General on Press Affairs to the governor, confirmed the incident in a press statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Gusau. Idris said the accident occurred along Funtua/Gusau road around 6pm on Thursday. He said Police Inspector, Aminu Usman and Sgt. Nura Mohammed lost their lives instantly at the scene of the accident. He narrated that the deceased had escorted the governor to Abuja on a five day official trip. Idris said that while they were returning with the governor, one of the vehicles in the convoy broke down in Zaria, Kaduna state. “The two policemen were among the seven persons left behind to oversee the repairs of the broken down vehicle before coming to Gusau. “About two hours later, however, the sad news was brought to the governor that those left behind were involved in the crash while driving in a heavy downpour and that the two policemen had died. I use scale of preference to balance my marriage and career – Mercy Johnson(Opens in a new browser tab) “Amidst tears, the governor directed the evacuation of the wounded persons from Funtua General Hospital where they were receiving treatment to a referral hospital for better care under the supervision of the governor’s personal physician. The Doctor was also directed to update the governor on the progress of the treatment,” Idris stated. He further explained that while one of the victims escaped the accident unhurt, the remaining four sustained varying degree of injuries. Idris said the governor had condoled with the families of the deceased and said the state government would pay all medical bill of those hospitalized.(NAN) Vanguard Eleven abductees including three children, have regained their freedom in Zamfara. July 8, 2019 In "News" Suspected bandits, on Sunday evening, opened fire on the motorcade of Zamfara State governor, Bello Matawalle, who was on his way to condole with victims of a previous attack on a community in  Gusau Local Government Area. June 4, 2019 In "News" Ten passengers and a driver travelling in a commercial Sharon Vox wagon vehicle have all lost their lives in a head-on collision with trailer truck at about 5 kilometres South of Zamfara state capital Gusau. August 10, 2019 In "News"