Chief Francis Chukwuma Okonta, renowned art collector and pioneer President of Art Gallery Owners Association of Nigeria (AGAN) has died in London on Wednesday, August 28, 2019, at the age of 80 after a brief illness. He played a significant role in the formation of Nigeria’s most popular visual art festival, Art Expo, in Lagos in 2008, in collaboration with Joe Musa-led National Gallery of Art. The late Okonta, born in 1939, retired in 1999 from Federal Ministry of Information as Deputy Director. He was appointed into VISION 20:10 team during the regime of late General Sani Abacha. READ ALSO: Taraba police killing: Lawyer makes cash donation to Ediale family Okonta was also Secretary-General, Nigeria Olympic Committee and served as Special Assistant to the former Minister of Information, Senator Uche Chukwumerije. From the Information ministry, he was appointed Chairman, Nigeria Boxing Association; President, Cycling Federation and Secretary-General, Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC). Until his death he was Chief Executive Officer Nkem Gallery, Lekki, Lagos. In 2011, Okonta told Vanguard in an interview:  “We need to really sit down and think well for this country to move forward and be great.” Sadly, he died watching the country being run down as never before. VANGUARD    Chief Francis Chukwuma Okonta retired in 1999 from Federal Ministry of Information as Deputy Director. His activities in high places in the government of the federation pops him up as a legend. June 17, 2011 In "Interview" Chief Frank Okonta, the chairman of Art gallery owners Association of Nigeria (AGAN) needs little introduction. He is the founder of Nkem art gallery in Lagos, used to be a sports administrator in his days in the civil service before he retired. A member of the vision 2010 where he… September 30, 2012 In "The Arts" Art promoter and president of Art Gallery Association of Nigeria (AGAN), Chief Frank Okonta has said that better days lies ahead for emerging artists in the country if given the required exposure that would adequately position them to reap from entire new market and opportunities that abounds in world of… June 3, 2010 In "The Arts"