A human right activist, Adeyanju Deji, has described as ‘senseless’ the order given to the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, to attack President Muhammadu Buhari in Japan. Deji who equally described Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, as a businessman, sponsored by some elements in the North, said that he (Kanu) wants to ruin the Igbo race. Buhari’s Japan Visit: IPoB can’t attack Buhari ―Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth(Opens in a new browser tab) Recall that Kanu had ordered his members in Japan to humiliate President Buhari who plans to depart Abuja, on Sunday for Japan to participate in the Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7) holding in the City of Yokohama. Miffed with Kanu’s directives, Deji, said; “How can any reasonable person openly call for an attack on the president of a nation on foreign soil? Even if you don’t like Buhari or what he represents, at least we must respect the fact that he is the president of our country.” Read his full statement as contained in his facebook handle. Permit me to start with the words of Marthin Luther King: “In spite of temporary victories, violence never brings permanent peace. We adopt the means of nonviolence because our end is a community at peace with itself. We will try to persuade with our words, but if our words fail, we will try to persuade with our acts.” You have heard me say before and I will say again, Nnamdi Kanu is only a business man looking for where to collect money. He is not driven by ideology or love for the igbos. After attacking his fellow Igbo brother, Senator Ike Ekweremadu who played a significant role in ensuring his release from Kuje Prison in Germany, Kanu the businessman has called on some of his miscreants/supporters to attack President Buhari as he visits Japan. Those who were doubting me when I said Kanu is being sponsored by some element in the North can now see the clear handwriting on the wall. How can any reasonable person openly call for an attack on the president of a nation on foreign soil? Even if you don’t like Buhari or what he represents, at least we must respect the fact that he is the president of our country. IPOB’s Attack on Ekweremadu, Callous Act of Ingratitude – Igbo Bu Igbo(Opens in a new browser tab) Do you think Kanu does not know the danger of attacking Buhari in Japan. He knows but those sponsoring him are doing everything humanly possible to ensure no Igbo man ever rule Nigeria and also put peace loving igbos in the North in danger by setting them up for reprisal attacks by Buhari’s fanatical supporters. The other plot is also to use Kanu to divide igbos by creating an atmosphere of war. The plan of the sponsors of Kanu is to provoke the political leaders in the South East, i.e -governors and other elected officials to the point that they will have no other option but to orchestrate attacks against Kanu and his supporters in retaliation. Kanu only worships money and will not stop the verbal attacks on Igbo leaders in as much as his paymasters continue to send him alerts. -Comrade Deji Adeyanju Vanguard Adeyanju Deji, human right activist has asked the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu to come back to Nigeria and stop instigating his group members to attack Nigerian leaders. August 25, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria police have released the former Head of New Media for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and Convener of pro-democracy and good governance group, Concerned Nigerians, Prince Deji Adeyanju and his co-detainee, Brian Jonah Dennis who were picked by the security operatives earlier this morning for staging a peaceful… April 21, 2017 In "News" The Nnamdi Kanu led Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and it's Directorate of States yesterday said there is no more space for tyranny and repressive government in Africa, saying that the alleged repressive and tyrannical government going on in Nigeria will fissile out in no distant time. April 22, 2017 In "News"