South Africa’s prolific rapper and producer Nasty C; African music definitive artiste, Davido; Nigeria’s contemporary music talent, Burna Boy; and Northern Africa’s brilliant showman, Tamer Hosny have scored high nominations on the 6th AFRIMA Continental Nominees’ List that has been released by the International Committee of the All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, on Sunday, August 25. The Nominees’ List comprising the 26 Continental Award Categories is coming few days after the 6th AFRIMA Regional Categories comprising the Best Female and Best Male artistes within each of the five African regions were unveiled by the International Jury of AFRIMA during the World Media Conference held in Lagos, Nigeria on August 14, 2019, and broadcast live around the world on Africa Independent Television (AIT), RayPower Radio and Kennis FM. Muhammadu Buhari: Slavery still exists – We must take action(Opens in a new browser tab) The Continental categories are made up of the different genres of African music from Hip-Hop, Jazz, R’n’B, Pop and Reggae, Ragga & Dancehall to other coveted categories such as ‘Song of the Year’, ‘Album of the Year’, ‘Producer of the Year’ and ‘Best African Collaboration’ among others. Over 200 songs have been nominated from a variety of artistes in the Continental and Regional categories cutting across a host of African talents and creative living on the continent and in the diaspora. Leading the 6th AFRIMA nominations scorecard is South Africa’s Nasty C with nine nominations in the following categories; Best Male Artiste in Southern Africa, Artiste of the Year in Africa, Song of the Year in Africa, Producer of the Year in Africa, Best African Rapper/Lyricist, Best African Collaboration, Best Artiste, Duo or Group in African Hip-Hop, Songwriter of the Year in Africa and Best Artiste, Duo or Group in African R’n’B & Soul. Following closely is Davido with six nominations which include; Best Male Artiste in Western Africa, Artiste of the Year in Africa, Song of the Year in Africa, African Fans’ Favourite, Best Artiste, Duo or Group in African R’n’B & Soul, and Best African Collaboration for ‘Blow My Mind with Chris Brown’. Burna Boy will be competing in five different categories which are Best Male Artiste in Western Africa, Artiste of the Year in Africa, Song of the Year in Africa, Album of the Year in Africa and Best African Collaboration with ‘Killin Dem’ featuring Zlatan’. Egyptian artiste, Tamer Hosny copped four nominations in the following categories; Best Male Artiste in Northern Africa, Artiste of the Year in Africa, Song of the Year in Africa, and Songwriter of the Year in Africa. Buhari jets out of Nigeria on Sunday(Opens in a new browser tab) Other artistes with multiple nominations include Diamond Platnumz who accrued four nominations (Best Male Artiste in Eastern Africa, Artiste of the Year in Africa, Best Artiste, Duo or Group in African Pop and Best African Dance or Choreography category), and South Africa’s seasoned producer and DJ, Prince Kaybee with five spots (Artiste of the Year in Africa, Song of the Year in Africa, Producer of the Year in Africa, Best Artiste, Duo or Group in African Electro, and Best African Collaboration with ‘Banomoya’ featuring Busiswa & TNS. The late DJ Arafat, known for his infectious music rhythms and energetic dance has also been posthumously nominated in the Best Male Artiste in Central Africa and Best African Dance or Choreography categories for works he produced within the 6th AFRIMA entry submission window of August 1, 2018 – August 2, 2019. Meanwhile, public voting for the 6th AFRIMA Nominees to stand a chance to win the 23.9 Carat Gold-Plated AFRIMA trophy commences on September 1 on the AFRIMA voting platform www.afrima.orgFans and followers of African music can access the online voting pages through the links on AFRIMA social media platforms or directly on the landing page on www.afrima.org. Voting closes at midnight CAT on November 22. Speaking on the release of the 6th AFRIMA final Nominees’ List, Mr. Delani Makhalima, a member of the International Jury of AFRIMA representing Southern Africa, said: “As with each year, the musicians never cease to amaze us with their incredible talent. As jurors, we are impressed with the quality of work being produced. We are confident that the nominees’ list presented this year is a true reflection of world-class African talent and each year it gets harder and harder to judge and grade the standard, as all regions on the African continent continue to surprise us by what we see and hear.” The 2019 AFRIMA Call for Entry which opened worldwide on May 15 exceeded the 2018 submissions by 148 entries. Of the 8,157 entries submitted this year, Western Africa led the pack with 38% of the total entries followed by Southern Africa with 24%. Eastern Africa, Central Africa, and Northern Africa have 20%, 14%, and 4% respectively. 12th African Games: Nigeria in final of team event in badminton(Opens in a new browser tab) The 13-man International Jury of AFRIMA sat in Lagos, Nigeria from Wednesday, August 7, 2019, to Tuesday, August 14 for screening, assessing, grading and selecting nominees into the 36 different Regional and Continental awarding categories of AFRIMA. The 2019 main awards event scheduled for November 20 to November 23 will span four days packed with activities which include the 6th AFRIMA Welcome Soiree, the 6th Africa Music Business Summit (AMBS), the 6th AFRIMA Music Village, a Guided Tour of the Host City, the exclusive 6th AFRIMA Nominees Party and the 6th AFRIMA Main Awards ceremony. Vanguard Afropop star David ‘Davido’ Adeleke, Afro-fusion singer, Burna Boy and South African musician Nasty C scored the most nominations for 2019 AFRIMA awards. August 26, 2019 In "Entertainment" Organizers of the prestigious All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, have unveiled the nominees’ list (regional category) for its 6th edition, with pop star Davido set to battle for the coveted 23.9 carats gold-plated AFRIMA Trophy alongside Wizkid, Shatta Wale, Kizz Daniel, Salif Keita, Burna Boy, Ghana’s King Promise, Mail’s Saif… August 16, 2019 In "Entertainment" Angolan RnB star, Anselmo Ralph, traditional music star from Mali, Oumou Sangare and Nigerian pop-star, Wizkid lead the pack of highest nominated African music talents on the just unveiled 2017 All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) Nominees List with six, six and seven nominations respectively. This was revealed on Thursday, August… August 19, 2017 In "Entertainment"