Former Miss Delta State and blossoming Nollywood actress, Lizzygold Onuwaje, has never minced words when it comes to the types of men she’s attracted to. She likes them rich but not just rich but men who have truly worked for their money. “It’s not like I’m a very rude person, but I’m blunt and friendly at the same time. But I like rich guys, if you are not rich; I can never be attracted to you. I like rich, clean and fresh guys. When I say rich, I don’t mean ‘Yahoo Yahoo’ kind of guys, because they are not hardworking. I want a guy who is consistent with his work and riches. Right now, I’m okay where I am, so I don’t think I’ll leave him for any other,” she had quipped in a chat with Potpourri. “I like men that are caring. You have to be rich, caring, romantic and nice. Some men are rich but stingy. Be rich and be willing to spend the money. If I tell you I need anything, let me get the alert. I like alerts a lot.” she added. Lizzygold is an ex beauty queen from Warri South Local Government, an Itsekiri girl, who has done over 40 films as an actress. Apart from that, she is also a philanthropist who has an NGO that takes care of the tuition of some indigent students in the universities. She is a movie producer too and a mother of one. Vanguard Former Miss Delta State and blossoming Nollywood actress Lizzygold Onuwaje has never minced words when it comes to the types of men she's attracted to. She likes them rich but not just rich but men who have truly worked for their money. August 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" Everyone has what makes them tick, be it in love or at war. For single mother of one, Lizzygold Onuwaje, a former Miss Delta State, Nollywood actress and producer, she cannot live under the same roof with her man. In her recent post which she soon deleted, the Itsekiri girl… February 9, 2019 In "Entertainment" Former Miss Delta State and blossoming Nollywood actress Lizzygold Onuwaje has put to bed. The 2008 Information Science graduate of Delta State University was delivered of a bouncing baby boy late Monday November 9th 2015 at Oasim Private Hospital in South Africa. November 10, 2015 In "Entertainment"