President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday commended Kaduna and Kano states for their support during the February 23rd presidential election, noting that he has paid back by giving them two substantive positions in his council. “Kaduna and Kano are the only two states I gave two substantive positions in my council. So, I have appreciated your votes and paid you back by giving you ministers of environment and finance”, he said. Who they are: Profiles of Buhari’s ministers(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking during a courtesy visit to Shehu Idris, emir of Zazzau, at his palace in Zaria, Kaduna, Buhari vowed to do everything within his power to make Nigeria better. His words, “Before you push everything to me, I am just reminding you that I will do my best and I will make sure that the new cabinet is working for the good of Nigeria and Nigerians,” he said. “Kaduna and Kano are the only two states I gave two substantive positions in my council. So, I have appreciated your votes and paid you back by giving you ministers of environment and finance.” President Buhari felicitates with 2019 Hajj pilgrims(Opens in a new browser tab) Recall that Buhari garnered 1, 464,768 votes in Kano and 993, 445 votes from Kaduna in the last general elections. In view of that he appointed Mohammed Mahmoud, from Kaduna and made him the minister of environment, while Zainab Ahmed, from the same state, was made the minister of finance. Sabo Nanono from Kano is minister of agriculture while Bashir Magashi is the minister of defence. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday tasked all tiers of government to be alive to their responsibilities to the people including the hoards of unemployed youths in the country. August 22, 2019 In "News" “Let us consider the following trend very carefully: Shiite massacre-no arrest. Southern Kaduna killings-little or no arrest. Agatu genocide-little or no arrest. Pastor Eunice Elisha murdered in broad daylight in Kubwa-No arrest. Evangelist Bridget Agbahime beheaded in broad daylight in Kano-suspected killers discharged and acquitted on the instruction of the… March 25, 2017 In "News" President Goodluck Jonathan said calamity would have befallen Nigeria if former Head of State, Muhammadu Buhari and Islamic scholar, Sheik Dahiru Bauchi, were killed in the July 23 bomb attacks in Kaduna. July 27, 2014 In "News"