Governors of the South East region have appealed for an audience with President Muhammadu Buhari and security chiefs in the country over insecurity in the region. The Chairman, South-East Governors Forum, Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, disclosed this on Saturday while briefing newsmen after the forum’s meeting in Enugu. Umahi said that the sought meeting with the president was necessary because it would help douse rising tension in the region. The forum chairman announced a ban on herders who moved with AK47 riffles and or machete in the region. He also said that the forum agreed on joint air surveillance in the zone with security agencies in order to flush out bandits from the region. Also read: South-East govs ban herdsmen, cattle movement among communities “We have banned herders who move about with AK47 and machete and we want our security agencies to enforce the order,” he said. Umahi commended Enugu State Government for the steps it had taken to secure the state, including the establishment of Forest Guards. He encouraged other state governors to replicate the measure in their respective states to ensure the safety of the people. Reports have it that the meeting was attended by governors of Ebonyi, Anambra, Imo and Enugu States and the Deputy Governor of Abia. Others in attendance were security chiefs in the state, chieftains of Ohaneze Ndigbo and technocrats, among others. Vanguard By Anthony Ogbonna Following their emergency meeting with the Nigerian army’s GOC, 82 Division, Enugu, Major General, Abubakar Adamu, the South-East governors have, Friday evening,  proscribed the activities of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, in the region. September 15, 2017 In "News" ABAKALIKI—PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said his decision to visit Ebonyi State in the South-East geopolitical zone   was an indication that he believed in the unity of the country. November 15, 2017 In "Headlines" The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, Tuesday disclosed how the former Deputy Senate President, Chief Ike Ekweremadu, President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi and his Abia State counterpart, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu and other South East governors… August 20, 2019 In "News"