I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, and hear my speech (Psalm 17:6). Prayer is a tremendous privilege.  That you can talk to God over an issue, presenting your needs before His throne of grace, and you are sure of a definite answer, is an unquantifiable blessing.  For all who exercise the privilege of prayer, their lives always tell the story, and it is always glorious. Do not let a day pass by without diligently and heartily maximizing that privilege.  Make sure you pray without ceasing (I Thess 5:17). Gowon leads Christians in national rally prayer for Nigeria in Osogbo(Opens in a new browser tab) Many times we pray over an issue and it is like the answer is delaying in coming.  You must not give up.  Keep on praying.  Our Lord Jesus instructed us to “ask, and it shall be given you; to seek, and ye shall find; to knock, and it shall be opened unto you ”  (Matthew 7:7). Never give up on prayer, no matter the situation.  Only make sure that: 1)    You are keeping His commandment, and you are doing those things that are pleasing in God’s sight (1 John 3:22). 2)    What you are asking is according to the will of God for your life (James 4:3). 3)    You are very definite and specific in your prayers (Mark 11:24). Okorocha returns, gives Ihedioha ‘last warning’(Opens in a new browser tab) 4)    You take your time to meditate in the word of God, so that your spirit is well fed to pray with strength and vigour (Luke 1:38). 5)    You are praying in the name of Jesus Christ (John 14:13). 6)    You are praying in faith, being fully persuaded that God will do something about your case and give you a specific answer (James 1:6). 7)    You are full of praises and thanksgiving to God for all His goodness to you (Psalm 100:4). Beloved, keep on praying.  Prayer changes things. And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart (Jeremiah 29:13). Vanguard Luke 18:35-42 says: “And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging: And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. December 17, 2017 In "Worship" Brethren to have a real change, you must desire it. Move a step further and dream your change April 22, 2018 In "Joyful Homes" And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they heard that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou Son of David. And the multitude rebuked them, because they should hold their peace: but they cried the more, saying, Have mercy on… December 10, 2017 In "Worship"