Former vice President and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is desperate to silence ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo. Atiku disclosed this in a statement obtained by Thecable on Monday. He frowned at the inclusion of Obasanjo’s name in the list of tax defaulters by the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Recall that FIRS had last week published a list of those owing tax, including the name of the ex-president Obasanjo. The statement reads thus: “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission is feeding members of the media with deliberate falsehoods in an attempt to cause disaffection and bad blood between former President Olusegun Obasanjo and his former deputy, Atiku Abubakar, on one hand, and between former President Obasanjo and Nigerians in general,’’ the statement read. Fulani: Our grievances against Obasanjo, others; fears in Nigeria — Junaid(Opens in a new browser tab) “For the avoidance of doubt, Mallam Babalele Abdullahi, Atiku Abubakar’s son-in-law, did not donate any money in cash to the Olusegun Obasanjo Library. Yes, he did facilitate a donation of fifty million naira to the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library, but so did many other individuals, including civic-minded traditional rulers, state Governors, bankers and captains of industry. “This is because the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library is a non-governmental organisation that plays a pivotal role in promoting peace and stability in Nigeria, and that should be applauded.’’ “Another past leader, who did not improve himself or Nigeria after leaving office, but sat down nursing grudges and plotting revenge, former President Olusegun Obasanjo improved himself and Nigeria by authoring books, founding international think tanks and engaging in peace and capacity building efforts’’. “Donations to institutions set up to promote peace in Nigeria and Africa are to be commended, not criminalised. Presidential libraries in America and other parts of the world are similarly funded by donations from civic-minded individuals,’’ it said. ‘’For the avoidance of doubt, Mallam Abdullahi’s donation of fifty million naira was made via a bank transfer, in full compliance with the law. He did not donate or make any payment in cash, as the EFCC is erroneously and salaciously misleading the public. Furthermore, the sources of these funds are completely legitimate and have been conclusively proven to the EFCC. It is instructive to note that even the EFCC has not once claimed these funds to be the proceeds of any illegal activity whatsoever. Threats to Atiku : Buhari, APC jittery over collapsing defense at appeal court – PDP(Opens in a new browser tab) “The truth is that there is desperation on the part of the current administration to rope in former President Olusegun Obasanjo into a crime as a way of silencing his voice, which they see as the preeminent critical voice against the misrule that they have foisted on Nigerians. “This is why they asked the Federal Inland Revenue Service to falsely and libelously include his name in a published list of tax evaders, along with the names of other Peoples Democratic Party sympathisers, such as prominent international singer and pride of Nigeria, Davido, who played a prominent role in PDP’s gubernatorial campaign in Osun state, for which he is being punished.’’ Vanguard Popular Muslim cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, has said he had no regrets  playing a role to reconcile former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, and his ex-vice, Atiku Abubakar, noting that those complaining on social media were agents of government. October 22, 2018 In "News" Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar on Monday said former President Olusegun Obasanjo had the right to endorse whoever he wanted for the 2015 presidential elections. October 13, 2014 In "News" NIGERIANS across the six geopolitical zones, yesterday, differed on what the endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar by former President Olusegun Obasanjo meant. October 13, 2018 In "News"