Brig.-Gen. Abdul Ibrahim, the Acting General Officer Commanding (GOC) 7 Division, says the army has initiated new operational measures to stifle Boko Haram insurgents’ economy. Ibrahim made the disclosure on Wednesday when he visited frontline troops at Moloi on Maiduguri-Damboa Road. He disclosed that the army had initiated new tactics to enhance patrols, denied remnants of the insurgents’ freedom of movement and destroyed their sources of money. I took your love for granted, please forgive me, Iceberg Slim begs Juliet Ibrahim(Opens in a new browser tab) Ibrahim said the new campaign strategy would fortify defensive positions and enhance rapid response in the theater of operation. “We adopted Super Camp concept where we have stronghold positions and reasonable resources to be able to project power. “There is also Rapid Response (RP) and Strong Rapid Response (SRP), where we have men on wheels to be able to carry out patrols, raids and ambushes. “We discovered that elements of the terrorists have a kind of mobility because we have a defence in an area, they come and attack hence the need for a change in strategy. “In spite of security improvement and normalcy in the towns; we still have remnant of the insurgents, with the new concept we shall be able to take the fight to them. “Our ultimate aim is to force them to surrender and strangulate them because some economy activities are going on,” he said. Commenting on the visit, Ibrahim said he had visited 211 and 251 Battalions of the 7 Division Garrison and interacted with troops. The commander called on the people to cooperate with military by providing useful information on suspicious movement and activities in their communities. Edo govt set to construct bus terminus at sokponba road(Opens in a new browser tab) The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ibrahim had earlier took over command from the outgoing Commander, Maj.-Gen. Bulama Biu, who was redeployed to the Sector 3, Command of Operation Lafiya Dole, Monguno. It will be recalled that the army had on Friday destroyed large quantity of fish, hides and four vehicles seized from the insurgents on Maiduguri-Gamboru Road. (NAN) Vanguard Maj.-Gen. Clement Olukoju, the Commander,Corps of Signals (CCS), Nigerian Army has embarked on operational visit to Operation Lafiya Dole, as part of measures to enhance campaign against the campaign Boko Haram insurgents. December 20, 2018 In "News" Brig.-Gen. Abdulmalik Biu, the Acting General Officer Commanding (GOC), 7 Division, has tasked troops to be dedicated in the discharge of their duties to end the Boko Haram insurgency. October 21, 2018 In "News" THE Acting General Officer, Commanding Division 7 of the Nigeria Army, Victor Ezugwu, escaped a Boko Haram ambush yesterday morning, a statement from the Army Headquarters, signed by Col Sani Usman, said. April 20, 2016 In "News"