President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan says that the 9th National Assembly will support the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve a better, prosperous and secure Nigeria. Lawan made the declaration at a town hall meeting with members of his constituents in Gashua, Yobe. Lawan announced this in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media, Mr Ola Awoniyi on Wednesday in Abuja. ”We will make sure the 9th National Assembly gives the president the full support needed to achieve the Next Level agenda in the interest of our people and the country. “Though there are pockets of opposition from other sides, I assure you all that we won’t fail,” Lawan told a crowd that welcomed him. Lawan, however, appealed for patience, noting that there was no perfection in human beings. ”Where we haven’t performed well, I encourage you all to draw our attention to it, and as your representatives, we will work with the president to meet your expectations, he said. Lawan announced a donation of N10 million to the victims of the flood incident in his local government area of Bade, pending the intervention of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA). He assured his constituents in Yobe North that he would strengthen his efforts to meet their expectations. He also announced his decision to double his intervention in the area of education for the poor families by paying the tuition of anyone who secured admission into tertiary institutions. Vanguard ABUJA- PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, has reite reiterated  that the ninth National Assembly will give its maximum support to the Administration of President Muhammadu Buhari to achieve a better, prosperous and secured Nigeria for the good of the citizens. August 28, 2019 In "News" AHEAD of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly and election of Presiding officers, Youth, under the aegis of Progressives Youth Forum, yesterday endorsed the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, All Progressives Congress, APC, Yobe North as the next Senate President. April 16, 2019 In "Politics" outgoing Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, yesterday, said the 8th National Assembly witnessed all-time persecution and political harassment in the history of the legislature in Nigeria and stressed the need for the 9th NASS to be independent. June 7, 2019 In "News"