By Victoria Ojeme The United States Embassy in Nigeria, Friday gave reason why it still charges reciprocity fees from Nigerians seeking America Visa. The Embassy stated that it has not received any diplomatic communication regarding a new fee schedule for Americans seeking Nigerian visas Disclosing this in a statement obtained by Vanguard,  it said “The US Embassy looks forward to receiving official diplomatic communication regarding a new fee schedule for Americans seeking Nigerian visas.  Until such time, and confirmation of implementation, the reciprocity fees for approved visas to the United States will remain in place.” Recall that US had on Tuesday imposed a new visa fees on Nigerians, introducing a reciprocity fee for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications. A statement by the Public Affairs Section of the embassy, said the development was informed by what it described as the failure of Nigerian government to change the fees charged to U.S. citizens for certain  categories of Nigerian visa. It added that the action was meant to eliminate the cost difference. In view of that Nigerian government bowed to pressure and reduced visa fee of US citizens seeking Nigerian visa. This US embassy said they have not received official diplomatic communication regarding a new fee schedule for Americans seeking Nigerian visas. Vanguard The U.S Embassy has said that the reciprocity fee on approved visas remains effective until it receives official diplomatic communications from the Nigerian government on a new fee schedule for Americans seeking U.S visas. August 30, 2019 In "News" Barely 24 hours the United State of America, US, imposed a new visa fees on Nigerians seeking US visa, the federal government has bowed to pressure and reduced visa fee of US citizens seeking Nigerian visa. August 29, 2019 In "News" The United States Embassy in Nigeria, Tuesday introduced a reciprocity fee for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications. August 27, 2019 In "News"