The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has promised a better preparation ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games in Japan. Dare told Nigerian journalists in Rabat on Wednesday that he was satisfied with the performance of Nigerian athletes at the ongoing 12th African Games in Morocco. He said that Team Nigeria displayed high level patriotism and discipline, giving their best in spite of not having the same level of motivation and training. The minister, however, promised to give priority to all sports, saying: “I won’t be minister of football alone, but for all the sports in general, and I have seen some sports here that need total support. “Hence, we will give them all the necessary support they need, but I can assure you football won’t suffer.’’ Meanwhile, on Day 9 of the competition, Team Nigeria swept gold medals in athletics, winning three gold medals in track and field. READ ALSO: 1st Lagos State Inter-Club Boxing Challenge begins Team Nigeria won the gold medal in women’s 4×100 metres, 110 hurdles and javelin in women events at the Prince Moulay Abdullah Stadium, Rabat. The men also picked up a silver medal in 4×100 meters. Nigeria also won bronze medal in 400 metres to finish strongly in Wednesday’s Athletics events and also won gold medal in gymnastics. Ghana, put up a surprise by beating Nigeria’s quartet of Raymond Ekevwo, Divine Oduduru, Emmanuel Arowolo and Usheoritse Itsekiri to win gold in men’s 4x100m, with a Season’s Best of 38.30s. The quartet of Joy Udo-Gabriel, Mercy Ntia-Obong, Adekunle Jasper and Rosemary Chukwuma won the women’s 4x100m relay final, crossing the line in 44.16secs. (NAN) VANGUARD Nigerian athletes have been promised better preparations for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games with Team Nigeria yet to register its name on the medals table after Day 15 of the 2016 Olympic Games. August 20, 2016 In "News" Almost three head ahead of the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo, the Minister of Youths and Sports, Solomon Dalung has directed that preparations for the games must begin soon. Dalung gave the directive to the National Sports Federations at the closing ceremony of the 2017 National Karate Open Championship in Abuja.… November 26, 2017 In "Sports" He is SAD but definitely not a sad man. Sunday Akin Dare is the new man in charge of the ministry of Youth and Sports Development. The euphoria that greeted his appointment last Wednesday by President Mohammadu Buhari was such that you will think that Nigeria won a major international… August 25, 2019 In "News"