Abuja—South Africa has expressed  concern over the call by the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) for the expulsion of South Africans and protest at South African owned businesses in Nigeria. The country made its feelings known in a statement issued by Ms Anna-Maria Jojozi, Counsellor in-charge of Political Affairs at the South African High Commission in Abuja Saturday. Jojozi quoted Dr Naledi Pandor (MP), Minister, International Relations and Cooperation, to have expressed the feeling at the South African Development Community, SADC, meeting held in South Africa yesterday.. She said the meeting sought to discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa official visit to President John Magufuli of Tanzania, for the SADC Summit, from Wednesday to Thursday. Jojozi said: “I wish to express my department’s concern regarding statements said to emanate from student organisation in Nigeria, calling for expulsion of South Africans and protests at South African-owned businesses. “The protests are said to be in response to alleged killings of Nigerians by South Africans; as you are aware these allegations are devoid of truth, reckless and unwarranted. “We find these statements most unfortunate as they do not reflect the strong relations that exist between the people and the Government of South Africa and Nigeria. “The two countries enjoy strong bilateral relations, which were forged over many years during our struggle for liberation in South Africa; also, in this democratic era supported by the people and Government of Nigeria.” Jojozi said   South Africa’s Acting High Commissioner to Nigeria, Mr Bobby Moroe, had held several meetings with the police and other senior government officials in Nigeria. She said South Africa had established contact from the highest level of the Nigerian Government and received assurances that authorities in Nigeria were taking the calls for protests seriously. “They have also assured us that South African citizens and their property in Nigeria will be protected. “South Africa values the strong ties it has established with Nigeria and will continue to enhance these even further,” Jojozi noted. Xenophobic attack: NANS threatens to shutdown South African businesses(Opens in a new browser tab) The counsellor said the statements referred to the unfortunate death of Mrs Elizabeth Ndubuisi-Chukwu, Deputy Director-General of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, in June. She said that, the South African Police Service was still investigating the incident. “We believe no one should abuse this unfortunate tragedy to generate negative sentiments about South Africa and we express our condolences to Mrs Ndubuisi-Chukwu’s family; friends and the people of Nigeria.” Vanguard