The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has urged staff of the ministry to shun all forms of corrupt practices in the conduct of government business. The minister gave the advice in a statement issued by Mr Mohammed Manga, Director Press and Public Relations of the ministry in Abuja on Thursday. Manga quoted Aregbesola as saying that the fight against insecurity and corruption is a collective responsibility of all Nigerians. The minister, therefore, called on staff of the ministry to shun all forms of corruption and support President Muhammadu Buhari’s Administration in the determination to improve security, revitalise the economy and entrench transparency in governance. Aregbesola said that if all transactions were opened and uncovered, corruption would be kept at bay and “our society will be secured, which will also lead to civilisation’’. He said the ministry was set to deliver on the Agenda of President Buhari, particularly in the area of security and safety. “As members of staff of this ministry, our responsibility to this nation is huge. “We are to supervise the general implementation of policies and projects, geared toward the maintenance of safety and security of Nigerians,’’ the minister said. He called on staff of the ministry to contribute their quota toward achieving the programmes and policies of the government. Aregbesola said, especially in relation to the mandate of the ministry which is the provision of internal security and citizenship integrity through discipline and high dedication to service. Also read: I will create privileges tax for those who are wealthy, rich in Nigeria – Aregbesola He urged the staff to guide against stagnation and improve on their contributions toward ensuring a safe society to bring about socio-economic development. “If you are not improving yourself, you are stagnated and you’ll begin to degenerate. We can’t afford to stagnate; we must keep improving so as to keep Nigeria safe and secured,’’ he said. The minister assured the staff of prioritising their welfare issues. He said:  “I am here to provide purposeful leadership, motivational and inspiring leadership. “Those are the key things I’m supposed to give you but you must also be ready to deliver on the SET objectives of the present administration which is Security, Economy and Transparency (SET).’’ Ukpenetus Bassey, the Chairman, Joint Union Negotiation Council in the ministry, pledged the total loyalty and support of staff to President Buhari’s administration’s SET objectives to move the country to the next level Vanguard The Federal Government has directed the Nigerian Correctional Service to seek synergy with relevant Government Agencies, Non- Governmental Organisations and Civil Society Organisations with a view to de-radicalising Nigerian youths roaming the streets. August 23, 2019 In "News" Newly-inaugurated Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has announced his decision to formally assume the reins of the Ministry next Monday, conceding that he lacks knowledge of how the ministry operates as the little he knows about it was what he gleaned from the pages of newspapers. August 21, 2019 In "News" OSOGBO—Osun State Governor, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, has charged officers and men of the Nigeria Police on the need to strengthen community relations among the diverse people of Nigeria. Aregbesola also pointed out that the only thing capable of enhancing the activities of the members of Nigeria Police Force was to… June 27, 2016 In "News"