KATSINA – Director-General, National Youth Service Corps, DG NYSC Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim has cautioned corps members to avoid exposing themselves to be vulnerable to kidnapping and bandit attack, stating that the scheme will not pay ransom for any corps members kidnapped. The DG stated this when he paid an unannounced visit on camp officials and Corps members at the NYSC orientation camp in Katsina. A statement by the Public Relations Officer, Katsina State NYSC, Alex Obemeata said the Director-General advised the corps members not to endanger their security and also secure themselves to avoid being victims of kidnapping. According to Obemeata, “Addressing the corps members in Katsina Camp, the NYSC Boss urges corps members to be focused and be law-abiding. He said they should not endanger their security anywhere they found themselves. “The DG advised Corps Members to ensure they are in their rooms at most by 6:00 pm every day and avoid exposing themselves to be vulnerable to kidnapping and bandit attack. READ ALSO: Nigerian Army redeploys Kazaure as NYSC gets new Director-General “He stressed it to the corps members that the NYSC will never pay ransom if any corps member is kidnapped. Corps Members are therefore advised to secure themselves as much as possible to avoid being kidnapped. “He warned them to always obtain permission before travelling if they must travel out of the state. “Gen. Ibrahim said that the highest record of deaths amongst corps members was as a result of road traffic accident. The DG lamented that three corps members had just lost their lives in a ghastly motor accident in Katsina,” he said. On the arrest of Fake Corps Members, the Director-General reiterated that anyone caught should be handed over to the Police for prosecution and will make sure those already in police net are jailed to serve as a deterrent to others. VANGUARD The National Youth Service Corps, NYSC says it has nabbed two fake corps members in possession of fake degree certificates from Imo State University. August 24, 2019 In "News" Brig. Gen. Sule Kazaure, the Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has urged corps members to shun partisan politics as the 2019 general elections draw near. November 8, 2018 In "News" The newly appointed Director-General of National Youth Service Corps, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, is set to assume office on Friday. May 3, 2019 In "News"