IBADAN-AS a way of enhancing the saving pattern of every Nigerian, a money lending firm, CreditAssist Investment Limited, has modernised the traditional Piggybank (Kolo) system of saving money by launching a standard, secured web and mobile application known as ‘KoloMoni’ to encourage a reliable method in money-saving digitally. This modernised method of saving money, according to the Executive Director of the firm, Mr John Alamu, while briefing journalists at Davies Hotel in Ibadan, was aimed at encouraging investment in order to foster the culture of personal saving among Nigerians and set users of the application on the road to financial freedom. He disclosed further that the ‘KoloMoni’ would reshape the saving pattern of every Nigerian towards achieving their set goals through personal savings, adding that it would also reduce dependence on excessive borrowing. Alamu hinted further: “KoloMoni is an innovative and modernised version of the traditional ‘Kolo’ (Piggybank) and can be thought of as a digitalised kolo for saving money.” “I am confident that KoloMoni is a major way to reduce over-dependence on loans, which often leads to financial disequilibrium. Also read: Clearing agent hacks bank’s application, steals customer’s N2m “With a wide array of savings plans available on KoloMoni, our customers will always have money at their disposal to finance their set goals without sourcing for loans.” “Achieving financial freedom four our customers without debilitating loans was the driving force behind the development of KoloMoni,” he disclosed. Highlighting the benefits of using the mobile application, Alamu stated that savings on ‘KoloMoni’ could attract interest rates as high as 15% per annum, noting that the savings are insured by the Nigerian Securities and Exchange Commissions through Meristem Trustees. “KoloMoni is designed for every Nigerian that has access to a smartphone which would enable them to save periodically (daily, weekly or monthly),” Alamu pointed out. He then disclosed that CreditAssist Investment Limited was a money lending organisation licensed by the Oyo State Government which is an affiliate of the Association of Non-Bank Microfinance Institutions of Nigeria (ANMFIN). Vanguard ONLINE savings accounts are accounts offered by financial technology companies (FinTechs). Compare to savings accounts offered by deposit money banks, online savings accounts require less documentation and offer fast account opening processes. March 25, 2019 In "Business" Managing Director of Nurture Technology services limited, Mr. Uchenna Okezie has berated many payment applications in the market, saying they lack the flexibility features which give users intuitive payment transactions. July 17, 2019 In "Technology" ONLINE savings accounts are accounts offered by financial technology companies (FinTechs). Compare to savings accounts offered by deposit money banks, online savings accounts require less documentation and offer fast account opening processes. April 1, 2019 In "News"