About 500 ex-Nigeria Airways staff are to be verified in another round of verification exercise currently going on simultaneously at Lagos and Kano centres. The national vice chairman of the ex-workers union of the Airways, (north), Mr Mohammed Adamu who disclosed this  ​said that most of the eligible workers had been audited and paid 50 per cent of their severance package after the earlier exercise conducted in the six geo-political zones in September 2018. The Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit, PICA, this week commenced a week-long mop-up verification for the ex-workers of Nigeria Airways who were not audited during the previous exercise. The exercise is meant to ensure that all eligible beneficiaries were audited and paid their entitlements Speaking yesterday while inspecting the Lagos centre,  the permanent secretary in charge of special duties in the ministry of finance, budget and national planning, Mr. Mohammed Dikwa, who  was represented by the deputy director of procurement, Mr. Izerebu John, told the ex-workers that the federal government would pay them their entitlements after the audit. He, however, advised the ex-workers to “cooperate with the verification officials by providing all the required documents”. It would be recalled that Nigeria Airways was liquidated in 2004 without the almost 6,000 workers being paid any entitlements. However, following continued agitation by the workers, President Muhammadu Buhari in 2018 approved 50 per cent severance package for all the audited staff of the airline and about 22.3 billion Naira was approved for the payment. After much delay after the approval, the money was finally released last September 2018. Reacting to this latest exercise, the Secretary-General, Nigeria Airways Pensioners Union, Mr Segun Adeleke expressed appreciation to the federal government for taking “this new bold and commendable step”. Vanguard LAGOS—the Federal Government yesterday commenced payment of the gratuity of ex-workers of the defunct Nigeria Airways who have been undergoing verification in the last two weeks. October 25, 2018 In "News" THE Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit, PICA, has revealed that some of the workers and pensioners of the defunct Nigeria Airways engaged multiple verifications in the just concluded exercise. October 31, 2018 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has approved the sum of N22.6 billion for former staff and pensioners of the defunct Nigeria Airways. May 30, 2019 In "Aviation"