IT was a gathering of who is who in Edo State yesterday at the 90th birthday celebration of the Esogban of Benin, Chief David Edebiri where national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu said the APC would win the coming governorship elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states. Also elder statesman and nationalists leader, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai urged Nigerians to continue to fight for the economic independence of the country which he said was the second phase of the struggle after independence which he was proposed by Edebiri when unexpectedly, the British colonialists agreed in 1957 to grant Nigeria independence in 1960. Among the dignitaries present was the national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, the Iyase (Prime Minister) of Benin, Chief Sam Igbe who was also the chairman of the ceremony. Also present were Yakassai, palace chiefs and the Secretary Benin Traditional Council, FramkmIrabor, Speaker of Edo state House of Assembly, Frank Okiye, former Minister of State for Works, Dr Chris Ogiemwonyi, Minister of Health Dr Osagie Ehanire represented by the Chief Medical Director, University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Professor Darlington Obaseki, Minister of State for Health, Prince Clem Agba represented by his Special Adviser, Dr Philip Ugbodaga, former Chief of Staff to President Goodluck Jonathan, Mike Ogiadomhe, former deputy governor, Hon Lucky Imasuen, the spokesperson of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chris Nehikhare and others. Tinubu told journalists that “I expect nothing less than victory in Kogi and Bayelsa States, who is the other party” On complaints that Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi state has not done well for his people, he said “If you don’t have complaints in politics, then there is no democracy so we only pay attention to the noise in the market because we have so many apples, oranges and various fruits of different character but there is one thing that is consistent, this is a market of many branches and this is the broom; they will come together as a bunch to sweep clean all the debris of the past, that is it, we are going to win. Yakassai said Chief Edebiri was among the few statesmen alive who fought for Nigeria’s independence. He said Nigeria has the largest market in Africa and the struggle is to make the market benefit Nigerians.”We should struggle to make sure the market serves the interests only of our people. We will continue until victory is achieved.” Chief Edebiri said it was his first time of celebrating birthday since he was born. He said Oshiomhole did not disappoint him as a governor. Oshiomhole praised Chief Edebiri for adopting him as a son and supporting his emergence of the governor. The former Edo Governor said he would use any available opportunity to empower people from the Benin Kingdom. He recalled how Chief Edebiri before the last general elections helped solved problems within the APC. Edebiri released 90 pigeons to mark the birthday. Vanguard BENIN—SOME senior citizens, including first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, founding member of Arewa Consultative Forum, ACF, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai and Chief Mbazulike Amaechi, will on March 25, 2017 converge in Benin City, Edo State, to honour one of the nation’s nationalists, late Chief Anthony Enahoro. March 23, 2017 In "News" ELDER statesmen and political leaders, led by Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, yesterday, in Benin-City, called on the Federal Government and the National Assembly to immortalize the late nationalist, Chief Anthony Enahoro, by renaming the National Assembly complex after him before the end of the 2017 legislative year. March 26, 2017 In "News" BENIN CITY — THE Chairman of the Benin Forum, an umbrella body of all Benins both in Nigeria and the Diaspora, Chief David Edebiri has said the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has no future in Edo State. October 29, 2014 In "News"