A Lagos High Court sitting in Ikeja has fixed October 18, for ruling on the admissibility of confessional statement made by alleged kidnap kingpin Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans. Justice Hakeem Oshodi fixed the date yesterday after hearing submissions from prosecuting and defense team. Evans and his co-defendants Uche Amadi, Okchukwu Nwachukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Victor Chukwunonso Aduba and a woman, Ogechi Uchechukwu are facing a-two count charge of conspiracy and kidnapping. During yesterday’s proceedings, defence counsel, Mr. Olarenwaju Ajanaku told the court a confessional statement was extracted from his client under duress. Wife accused of killing husband: Court dismisses application seeking to reject confessional statements(Opens in a new browser tab) But the new Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Lagos, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SA, who is now leading the prosecuting team urged the court to admit the evidence against the defendants. Onigbanjo argued that since the defendants have admitted that part of the statement was written by them, the entire statement cannot be separated. He said “With respect to the fourth defendant having admitted that part of the statement was written by him and that the other part were not written by him, I urge this court to admit the statement as exhibit.’ Vanguard JUSTICE Hakeem Oshodi of the Lagos High Court, Ikeja yesterday dismissed the claims by Kidnap Kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans that he was tortured by the men of Police Inspector General’s Intelligence Response Team and the Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) after his arrest. February 2, 2019 In "News" A Lagos State Prosecuting counsel, Mr Y. G Oshoala, Thursday brought an application seeking to add Mr Femi Falana SAN, as a witness in the trial of suspected billionaire kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans. June 27, 2019 In "News" The trial of alleged kidnap kingpin, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike a.k.a Evans and three others on fresh kidnapping charges was stalled on Thursday at an Ikeja High Court. February 15, 2018 In "Crime Guard"