ENUGU- FORMER Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu has narrated how he was shamelessly attacked by the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPoB, in Nuremberg-Germany on Saturday. Ekweremadu who said he was ok in statement he issued via his Twitter handle, also disclosed that the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo was also supposed to be at the venue of the event. Ohanaeze disowns purported ultimatum-issuing Igbo group(Opens in a new browser tab) Nwodo exclusively told Vanguard that he would have also been attacked but for visa issue that made him not went for the Igbo cultural event. Attack Ebonyi, Enugu, Abia Anambra states govs, IPOB tells members The Ohanaeze leader, however, said that the group has now become dangerous and wondered how IPoB summoned the courage to attack Ekweremadu who played key in the release of IPoB leader from his incarceration From left Kuje-Abuja maximum prison. According to Senator Ekweremadu who gave account of his ordeal at the event through his social media handle, @iamekweremdu, “I attended the Second Annual Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo Germany in Nurnberg today (Saturday) where I was billed to give a keynote address along with the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who, however, could not make it eventually. “I was given a resounding welcome by Ndigbo in Germany and everything went smoothly until some men, who identified themselves as IPOB members stormed the venue and began to complain about the killings in the South East, stressing that there would be no Igbo event at the venue. “I tried to engage them, but when they became unruly, I had to leave the venue. The organisers also invited the police and I was accompanied out of the venue. “Much as I am disappointed in their conduct, especially as I am one of the persons, who have spoken up on justice for Ndigbo, the Python Dance, judicial killings in Igbo land and elsewhere both on the floor of the Senate and in my written and personal engagements with the Presidency as well as rallied the South-East Senate Caucus to secure Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s release with Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe taking him on bail to douse tension in the South East, I nevertheless do not hold this to heart against them, for they know not what they do. “I have received thousands of solidarity calls and messages from well-meaning Ndigbo. I want to assure them that I am hail and hearty. I have also spoken with the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Ambassador Yusuf Tuggar” Ekweremadu’s media aide, Uche Anichukwu confirmed the story. Expressing disappointment on the incident, Nnia Nwodo said the assault on Ekweremadu by Igbos in Germany, described as IPOB, is disappointing, grotesque and dangerous for Igbo solidarity. “This violent, rude, impertinent, divisive and discourteous style of IPOB or IPOB instigated miscreants is damaging to our cause. “It strengthens the case of those who describe them as terrorists and weaken our case against the infringement of our fundamental human rights. “Ekweremadu negotiated the sureties and securities for Nnamdi Kanu’s release on bail. He does not deserve this picketing and disgrace. A disgrace to him is a disgrace to Igbo race. “Whilst I condemn the attack on our revered son and leader, I call on the law enforcement agencies in Germany to bring to book the perpetrators of this despicable act. It is un-Igbo. It is disgraceful,” Nwodo charged. Vanguard