CALABAR—THE perennial inter -communal conflict between the neighbouring communities of Ebom and Usumutong in Abi Local Government Area in Cross River State broke out again, weekend. Reports from the area said the Ebom people allegedly attacked the Usumutong community on Friday and Saturday but were repelled by a team of soldiers stationed in the area. Cultism: We did not release market leader under pressure – Anambra CP(Opens in a new browser tab) The Clan Head of Usumutong, Chief Stephen Eremi told Vanguard that a motorbike rider  from his community with his passenger were abducted by Ebom youths but the rider managed to escape but the lady was taken away by their attackers. “The young man came to report what  happened and we immediately contacted the Divisional Police Officer for Abi police division and the captain of the military team in the area. The whereabouts of the woman is not known as I talk to you now,” Eremi said. He said not satisfied with the attack on the motorbike rider, their Ebom neighbours again launched an attack on the two fronts against Usumutong but were repelled by soldiers. “They launched an attack on us in two fronts on Friday and  Saturday. You cannot count the number of times our brothers have attacked us. That is why we have been calling on government to do more to save us from the hands of these people.” A’Ibom ruler laments ramshackle access road to community(Opens in a new browser tab) Meanwhile, the Clan Head of Ebom, Eval Ejar denied the involvement of his community in the alleged attack on the Usumuong community. Captain Akimsole, the army officer incharge of troops stationed in the area said normalcy had been restored but refused to give further details because “ You know I am not authorised to speak to the press.” The DPO could not be reached on phone as his lines were switched off while Irene Ugbo, the  Police Public Relations Officer for the Cross River Police Command said she was yet to be briefed on development in the area. Vanguard CALABAR- THE palace of Chief Edward Osim, the Paramount Ruler of Abi local Government Area of Cross River State and father in law to former President Goodluck Jonathan   and those of other members of the Usumutong community have been reportedly razed by  their Ebom neighbours  in a communal conflict between the two which is… November 15, 2018 In "News" CALABAR—THE palace of Chief Edward Osim, Paramount Ruler of Abi Local Government Area of Cross River State and father-in-law to former President Goodluck Jonathan has been razed in a communal clash. Also razed are the houses of other members of Usumutong community by their Ebom neighbours in a communal conflict… November 16, 2018 In "News" CALABAR—The discovery of the headless bodies of a father and his son on their farm in Ebom Community, Abi Local Government Area of Cross River State, weekend, created fear in the entire area. July 15, 2019 In "News"