Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has congratulated Nigerian basketball star, Merit Atebe-Innocent, for making Nigeria and Africa proud. The governor hailed her inclusion in the Africa team at the second edition of the NBA Global Basketball Championship in Florida, U.S. Okowa’s commendation was conveyed in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olise Ifeajika, on Saturday in Asaba. He noted that the 13-year-old Atebe-Innocent, who hails from Oyede in Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta was among the Africans that participated in the junior world tournament between Aug. 6 and Aug. 12. Our cultural heritage is key to national devt — Ogbonna(Opens in a new browser tab) He said although they lost at the semi finals to the Latin America side we commend her for making Nigeria and Africa proud. He said that the state government would continue to support  the youth to excel in sports in order to curb crime in the society. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I congratulate an illustrious daughter of the State, Miss Merit Atebe-Innocent, on her inclusion in the Africa team that participated at the second edition of NBA Global Basketball Championship in Orlando, Florida. “Her exploits in the tournament justified her inclusion and we are glad that she lived up to expectation by adding seven points and 10 rebounds in the African team’s semi-final  36-44 loss to the Latin American girls. “As a leading state in sports, it is a thing of joy that a Deltan was among the four selected from Nigeria to represent Africa in the global championship. What InterswitchSPAK 2.0 masterclass tends to achieve in youths(Opens in a new browser tab) “As we build on our Stronger Delta vision, we will continue to encourage our youths to take to sports as a means of livelihood and as a way out of vices, poverty and unemployment,” Okowa said. He recalled that Miss Atebe-Innocent played basketball for St. Jude Secondary School, Yenagoa, Bayelsa, as a student. Atebe-Innocent and Bisola Badmus were the Nigerians in the African girls’ team at the tournament while Hassan Amer and Emmanuel Owonibi made the boys team. Vanguard Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated Delta born, Nigerian basketball star, Merit Atebe-Innocent, on her inclusion in the Africa team at the second edition of the NBA Global Basketball Championship in Florida, United States of America. August 24, 2019 In "News" GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa on Sunday congratulated the Super Falcons of Nigeria on their victory over the Banyana Banyana of South Africa in the final match of the 11th Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON), Ghana 2018. December 3, 2018 In "News" Delta State Governor, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated, Mr. Amaju Pinnick on his re-election on Thursday, as President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). September 20, 2018 In "News"