The leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has ordered his group in Japan to attack, disgrace and arrest President Muhammadu Buhari. Buhari had planned to depart Abuja, on Sunday for Japan to participate in the Seventh Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD7) holding in the City of Yokohama, a statement by his media aide, Femi Adesina signed. On hearing Mr. President’s plan to travel, Kanu according to Saturday Punch directed his members to attack and arrest him in Japan. South-East Governors to herdsmen: Don’t bring cattle to region on foot again or…(Opens in a new browser tab) According to Kanu, President Buhari must be arrested and handed over to Japanese authorities to enable him to answer for his alleged mass murder and crimes against humanity, which he allegedly committed in Nigeria between 2015 and 2019. Recall that IPOB had last week attacked the former senate president, Dr Ike Ekweremadu in Germany. The group pelted Ekweremadu with stones, eggs and torn his cloths. Kanu who reacted to Ekweremadu’s attack said it was a polite warning to south-east governors and Igbo leaders. He equally placed N1m bounty and vowed to reward anyone with useful information on overseas traveling schedule of South-East governors and other Igbo leaders. Germany: Mammoth crowd welcomes Ekweremadu in Enugu(Opens in a new browser tab) His words, “So if you are working in any Government House in Southeast and you know which city in the world the governor is going to be, inform us so that we will mobilize for him and you will be rewarded with N1m.” Vanguard As President Muhammadu Buhari arrives the United States to address the United Nations General Assembly, Northern leaders have raised the alarm that the embattled leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has mobilized Nigerians living in the country to attack the president. September 17, 2017 In "News" Kanu knows that Ekweremadu wrote a letter as Deputy Senate President   to President Muhammadu Buhari protesting Operation Python, and prescribing dialogue as the preferred pathway to resolution of such conflicts August 24, 2019 In "News" The Igbo apex socio-political group, Ohanaeze-Ndigbo, has warned the Federal Government against the move to revoke the bail granted the pro-Biafra agitator, Nnamdi Kanu, on the grounds that he breached the conditions for his bail. August 27, 2017 In "News"