Owerri—Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State yesterday, said he was ready to reveal his blueprint for the development of the tourism sector in the state. Governor Ihedioha stated this in Owerri through his Commissioner for Tourism, Creative Art and Culture, Chijoke Nzekwe, at the creative art seminar organised by the British Council. This is just as the  Director of Programmes, British Council, Ojoma Ochai, said the aim of the British Council was to help the youths of the state develop their skills as well as empower them in business skills. According to the state commissioner, “the state government has a blueprint on tourism which will be revealed to Imo people and the country soon. Also read: Desertification threatens livelihood of 40m Nigerians – Ministry of Environment “There is a new ministry called Creative Art, Tourism and Culture; there was no such minaret before now that shows the commitment of the state government in line with the governor’s Rebuild Imo agenda. “The endowment in this state, in this sector is unbelievable. We are richly blessed with creativity. When you look at Nollywood, it is populated by our people. “Hospitality is a natural attribute of our people. Looking at the revenue that will be generated in this sector will be comparable to the oil-rich countries.” Vanguard The Imo State governorship flagbearer of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the 2019 general elections, Chief Emeka Ihedioha has assured that if elected, his government will create over 50, 000 direct and indirect jobs through tourism and entertainment. February 22, 2019 In "News" By Chidi Nkwopara - Owerri Imo State Governor-elect, Emeka Ihedioha, has called on Imo people in Diaspora to "play an active role in the governance of their state, instead of distancing themselves from the happenings at home". The Imo State Governor-elect, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, who made the call at the… April 16, 2019 In "News" IMO State Governor-elect, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha realises the enormity of joblessness of the youths and its attendant evils and has promised to empower 15 youths from each of the 305 wards for specific skills acquisition training that will amount to 4,575 entrepreneurs each year. He also promised to create an… May 29, 2019 In "News"