Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has assured Nigerians that the activities of the Proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, would come to an end, if the country adopts an Igbo presidency come 2023. Disclosing this via an email he sent to Vanguard, President General Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, Mazi okechukwu isiguzoro said that Igbo Presidency in 2023 would make NdIgbo happier and activities of IPOB would fizzle out like a vapour. He said that South-east has been marginalized for long and as such needs to be compensated. His words, “IPOB activities will bring the realization of Nigeria President of Igbo stock. Nigerians might opt for full compensation for the marginalized South East by voting en mass for an Igbo to emerge as President in 2023 as they compensated the Yorubas in 1999. Nigeria, US partnership will continue to produce mutually desirable results – Osinbajo(Opens in a new browser tab) “When OPC, NADECO and Abiola issue came up, Nigerians compensated Yorubas by voting Chief Olusegun Obasanjo as President “We understood that the activities of Niger Delta militants led to Dr Good luck Jonathan becoming Vice President and later President. I was used to quell the situation. We equally know how Biko Haram insecurity led to the emergency of President Muhammadu Buhari. So what’s good for the Goose is also good for the Gander. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide assures Nigerians especially Arewa Consultative Forum, Northern Elders Forum, and Coalition of Northern groups, that we are determined to seal our aged longed relationship as old allies since 1960 as we commence our consultation meetings soon. “That Igbo Presidency 2023 with a Northerner as Vice President will end the activities of IPOB. Igbo will present one of the current South East Governors as a worthy successor of President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. “We thereby pass vote of confidence on the current leadership of South East Governors led by Gov umahi, assuring them of our respect and support. “We will do anything to protect them from any harassment or blackmail from any desperate group. Vanguard The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB has warned those who are claiming to be representing the group, including the members of Ohanaeze Ndigbo and its youth wing to stop such move, that nobody speaks or represents them, unless such a person or persons are designated officers of IPOB worldwide. February 29, 2016 In "News" THE newly inaugurated leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Wing, OYW, has called on the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, not to go ahead with their threat to disrupt the Igbo Summit being planned by the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, urging them to give peace and dialogue a chance. May 18, 2018 In "News" OHANAEZE Youths Wing, OYW, has commended Igbo leaders and youths for their massive attendance at the just concluded Igbo summit on restructuring at Awka, Anambra State and urged members of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, to retrace their confrontational attitude and work with Ohaneze for the good of the Igbo… May 24, 2018 In "News"