The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), says it is working with the Ministry of Power to boost power supply in the country. The Managing Director of TCN, Mr Usman Mohammed, said this during the inspection visit to the Kashimbilla Hydro – Power Plant in Taraba by the Minister of Power, Mr Sale Mamman, on Friday. The minister was accompanied on the visit by the Minister of State for Power, Mr Godwin Jedi-Agba. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Power Evacuation Component of the Kashimbilla Hydro-Power Plant, which commenced in 2017 was 90 per cent completed and would soon take-off. The Managing Director said that TCN was working with the ministry of power to reinforce the power project, to ensure that it commences transmission immediately. “This is one of the best sub-stations in the country and it is a good job because it will serve areas that are most neglected in the country. “If you look at the Eastern part of the country, most of those places do not have electricity and we want to reduce poverty as power and electricity work hand in hand,” he said. Also read: Electricity returns to South-East, as EEDC pays TCN N2.433bn The Acting Director, Renewable Energy and Rural Power Access Department, Mr Faruk Yusuf, said that the power evacuation project would contribute 40 Mega Watts to the National Grid. He said that the project will cover several local government areas and millions of people across Taraba and Benue. “This project will help a lot in the economic development of the country, “he said. The Zonal Manager, SCC Nigeria, Mr Michael Robin, said that the project had advanced to completion stage. Robin said that the company had done over 1000 towers and 300 kilometres of transmission lines and six sub-stations. Vanguard Federal  Government said it was determined to develop its identified hydro- power potential of 12,220 Megawatts to boost electricity supply in the country. November 15, 2018 In "News" Mr Usman Gur, the Managing Director and Chief Executive of Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), said the Federal Government was committed to improving power supply to boost economic activities in the Northeast. May 14, 2018 In "News" The current impasse over the takeover of management of the Transmission Company of Nigeria, TCN, by the Canadian firm, Manitoba Hydro International, has brought into sharper focus the challenge of implementing power reform that would ensure provision of adequate and stable electricity for millions of Nigerian businesses and homes. July 27, 2012 In "Special Report"