The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Tuesday announced the arrest of about 28 persons in connection with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, suspects. Disclosing this through its Lagos Zonal Head, Mohammed Rabo, the commission stated that it has recovered about four hundred and eighty six million naira, (N486m). The commission according to Punch disclosed that the recent joint operations between the commission and FBI had yielded 28 arrests, adding that 14 suspects had been charged and convicted. US ‘jihadist’ sought to attack White House – FBI(Opens in a new browser tab) It further stated that “nine of the suspects are currently undergoing trial, while five are still under investigations. “Over 80 cases are still under investigation from the EFCC-FBI joint operations.” His words, “From 2018 to date, the EFCC had launched a sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds, which resulted in over 200 arrests, 130 convictions and recovery of a large number of exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds of crime. “We had independently launched intensive investigative actions against the infamous Yahoo Yahoo boys culminating in various strategic raids and onslaught on their hideouts. “Our efforts in this regard have recorded tremendous successes leading to a number of arrests, prosecutions and convictions.” Vanguard The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, says  the collaboration between the Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, has led to the recovery of the sums of $314,000 and about N373 million from perpetrators of computer-related fraud. August 27, 2019 In "News" …EFCC worked with FBI to unravel fraud By Soni Daniel The Nigerian Government said on Friday it would take drastic measures to prevent Nigerians from engaging in cybercrimes to save its image from international embarrassment.   The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu, made the… August 23, 2019 In "News" Alarmed by the report by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation indicting 77 Nigerians over Business Email Compromise and wire fraud, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission said last night that it had placed all its officers and men nationwide to track the suspects. August 25, 2019 In "News"