The Switzerland Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr. Georg Steiner, has said that  with the business reforms initiated by Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, the state is placed at an advantage to attract Switzerland business community in Nigeria.   Among the state government officials at the meeting were the  Commissioner for Minerals, Oil and Gas, Hon. Joseph Ikpea, Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Cooperatives, Hon. Felix Akhabue; Senior Special Assistant on Investment Promotion and Head of Edo State Investment Promotion Office (ESIPO), Mr. Kelvin Uwaibi; the Focal Person, Ease of Doing Business, Mr. Kenny Aliu and Focal Person, Benin Enterprise Park, Deborah Okunbor. The Ambassador noted that the Switzerland Government has a large investment in Lagos, where the Switzerland Nigeria Business Community and the Consulate General are situated, adding that Edo state’s proximity to Lagos and the ongoing economic transformation driven by Governor Obaseki showed the potentials of the state to attract investors from Switzerland. The Ambassador who initiated a meeting of the state government, the Consulate General and the Switzerland-Nigeria Business Community in Lagos to showcase the investment opportunities in the state, noted that Edo government’s efforts to drive infrastructural development, power reforms, urban renewal, housing and other relevant information to investors are impressive. “We have a consulate in Lagos with so many businesses. From the point of view of Switzerland, we have a keen focus on what makes Nigeria interesting. Many of us are in the field of machinery, pharmaceuticals, nutrition and others. There is a huge market in Nigeria. I think the position of Edo State is good, and I think it is good to see that the positioning of the state can be strengthened even better. “Being relatively close to the 5th largest economy in Africa, there is a great opportunity for the economy to grow. At your disposal, feel free to request our consulate in Lagos, and the Switzerland Nigeria Business Community, which is about 50 in number to identify common grounds of benefits for both sides,” he added. Mr. Kelvin Uwaibi, noted that Edo State boasts of investment opportunities in petrochemicals, natural gas, oil palm, cocoa, rubber, tourism, amongst others.