The Ondo State Government has hailed the appointment of Dr Oluyinka Olutoye as Surgeon-in-Chief of the National Children’s Hospital in the United States of America (USA). This was contained in a statement made available to newsmen by Mr Babatope Okeowo, the Chief Press Secretary to the acting Gov. Agboola Ajayi, on Wednesday in Akure. Ajayi described the appointment of Olutoye, who is the son of the Alani of Ido-Ani, Gen. Olufemi Olutoye (rtd), as a round peg in a round hole “because he was part of the team that carried out surgery on a baby in-utero in a Texas hospital in 2016. “By his appointment, he will lead one of the largest children’s hospital’s surgery departments in the world. Also read: Wadume: Detained soldiers moved to Adamawa “Not only will he be leading 11 surgical departments, but Olutoye will also be responsible for the education of the next generation of leaders in children’s surgery. “He will also be appointed professor and the E. Thomas Boles chair of paediatric surgery at The Ohio State University (OSU) College of Medicine. Ajayi called on the youth in the state to emulate Olutoye who, he said, had distinguished himself in the field of medicine. He also advised them to see Olutoye’s attainment as a challenge for them to strive to achieve excellence in their respective fields of endeavour. The acting governor said that the youth had good examples to follow instead of engaging in internet fraud, drug peddling and other crimes that could spoil the good name the nation was trying to build for itself. Vanguard Oluyinka Olutoye, a Nigerian medical doctor, who graduated from Obafemi Awolowo University in Ile-Ife, has been appointed surgeon-in-chief at the Nationwide Children’s Hospital, Ohio, United States. August 27, 2019 In "Health" The Federal Government has commended a US-based Nigerian surgeon, Dr Oluyinka Olutoye, who successfully removed tumour from a baby in her mother’s womb. November 2, 2016 In "News" ACTING President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo yesterday at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, received a Nigerian trained medical doctor Oluyinka Olutoye who successfully led a medical team that operated on a foetus in Houston hospital, United States of America. August 7, 2017 In "News"