The member representing Itsekiri ethnic nationality in the board of DESOPADEC, Mr. Griftson Omatsuli has commended the immediate past chairman of the board, Mr. Godwin Ebosa for the transformation of Oboghoro and Utonila communities in Warri North Local Government Area of Delta. Omatsuli disclosed this while on a tour of Projects initiated by the commission in some communities in Warri North Local Government Area. He thanked Mr. Godwin Ebosa and the Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa for the giant developmental projects witness in the area. Delta SDP chieftain joins PDP citing Okowa’s devt stride(Opens in a new browser tab) “Only a man with a mission and vision could embark on such infrastructural projects that have transformed the communities.
“The youth must be commended for providing the enabling environment for these developmental projects which has transformed the area. “Only in a peaceful environment will communities benefits from developmental programs of the government, so we must remain peaceful and support the commission to succeed in its mandate” he added. The member representing Itsekiri ethnic nationality in the board of Delta State Oil Producing Commission (DESOPADEC), Mr. Griftson Timeyin Omatsuli has reiterated the commission’s commitment toward project delivery, saying that the core mandate of the intervention agency is to transform the communities into modern cities. August 22, 2019 In "News" We will develop more towns in the Creeks GOVERNOR Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has said his administration will turn around most of the riverine communities to modern towns in the next four years. The governor gave the assurance on Monday  while commissioning series of projects at Oboghoro and Utonlila… March 5, 2019 In "News" An anti-corruption group, Centre for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade (CHURAC) has approached a Delta State High Court sitting in Warri urging it to nullify the appointment of Michael Diden popularly known as Ejele by Governor Ifeanyi Okowa as the Chairman of the Board of the State Oil Producing Areas… August 16, 2019 In "News"