The Federal Government, on Wednesday, accused Shiek Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, Leader, Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN), of being sponsored by Iran to replicate the 1979 violent revolution that led to the forceful takeover of power in the country in Nigeria. In a fresh process it filed before the Federal High Court, Abuja, the federal government stressed that currently, members of the IMN, do not recognise President Muhammadu Buhari’s authority. It argued that the plan of the IMN leader and his sponsor was to forcefully turn the country into an Islamic State. The federal government, therefore, urged the court to dismiss the suit the IMN filed to challenge the order that proscribed its activities in Nigeria. It told the court that the relationship between El-Zakzaky and Iran started shortly after the said revolution that toppled a sitting government, It said that El-Zakzaky who was a Shia activist in the university was “heavily influenced” by the Iranian revolution, and had since galvanised his followers and brainwashed them to unleash mayhem against the Nigerian state and its citizens. In a 56-paragraph counter-affidavit that was deposed to by Deputy Commissioner of Police in Charge of Operation, FCT Command, Enyinnaya Adiogu, FG, told the court that he had the consent of the Attorney General of the Federation, the National Security Adviser, and the Inspector General of Police, to depose to the affidavit. DCP Adiogu said: “That from history and facts available, the Movement Called Islamic Movement of Nigeria founded by El-Zakzaky has its sole aim of creating an Islamic State. “That Sheik El-Zakzaky was heavily influenced by the Iranian revolution, which saw Ayatollah Khomeini take power in 1979 after the overthrow of the Shah in a popular uprising. “Khomeini remains the Islamic Movement in Nigeria’s main inspiration. “That members of IMN First pledge allegiance to Khomeini at their gatherings, and then to their local leader, Sheikh Zakzaky. “The IMN views itself as a government, and Sheikh Zakzaky as the only legitimate source of authority in Nigeria and it does not recognise the authority of the Nigerian government, and views its leaders both Muslims and Christians as corrupt and ungodly. “That the Islamic Movement in Nigeria began with a Shia Muslim university activist, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, who became so impressed with the 1979 revolution in Iran that he wanted one at home (Nigeria). “Later, El-Zakzaky went to Iran, ultimately becoming a Shia cleric. “That at his return home, Ibraheem El-Zakzaky formed the Islamic Movement of Nigeria and turned it into a vehicle for proselytizing and gaining followers in 1990s. “That to date, Sheikh El-Zakzaky enjoys the support of Iran in all the activities of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, including the agenda to make Nigeria an Islamic State. “That as a result of El-zakzaky Movement’s activities, many Muslim youths have converted to Shia-Islam of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria. “That the main aim of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria is to propagate the ideology in Iran and turn the Country (Nigeria) into an Islamic State as was done in the Iranian Revolution of 1979.” Vanguard The Federal Government, on Wednesday, accused Iran of sponsoring the detained leader of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, Shiek Ibraheem El-Zakzaky, to forcefully turn the country into an Islamic State. August 28, 2019 In "News" The Centre for Social Justice, Equity and Transparency (CESJET) has decried the incessant protest being staged by members of the Islamic Movement in the Nigeria, IMN, over the detention of their leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. The centre said IMN members were using terror and violence to subvert justice in ongoing trial… July 24, 2019 In "News" Protests by Shiite Muslim protesters demanding the release of their detained leader has led to bloodshed on the streets of Nigeria's capital Abuja in recent months. On Monday at least eight people were killed in clashes with Nigerian police, with six Shiite protesters, a police officer and a 22-year-old trainee… July 23, 2019 In "News"