Many people want a whiter smile, and whitening toothpaste can provide a safe and effective remedy for off-white teeth. But all toothpastes are not the same. If you have dental problems, choose the toothpaste that meets your specific needs. Read the label. It is advisable to check labels carefully. Not all types of toothpaste are suitable for everyone. For example, some products are unsuitable for younger children. Check for the NAFDAC approval and registration number. I started multi-million naira company from school bedroom —Abayomi, late Prof Lambo’s son(Opens in a new browser tab) Manufacturers often include any flavourings and sweeteners on the label. Being aware of the ingredients allow you to avoid specific chemicals if you are sensitive to them. For instance, whitening toothpastes contain products contain abrasive ingredients that polish the teeth or remove stains from the tooth’s surface. If you have sensitive teeth you may wish to avoid whitening toothpaste that contains chemicals as these can make sensitivity worse. Strong toothpaste contains abrasive agents to clean and whiten the teeth. The level of abrasiveness of a paste, known as its Relative Dentin Abrasivity (RDA), varies. Toothpaste that has a high RDA may damage the teeth. Look at the fluoride content. Fluoride is an essential ingredient in toothpaste. It  is a natural mineral that protects tooth enamel and fights cavities. There’s hardship in the land, says Emir of Zazzau(Opens in a new browser tab) You may require desensitising toothpaste that contains specific compounds, that block parts of the teeth to stop pain signals. Vanguard Whitening toothpaste, the result of Unilever’s Close Up toothpaste research and advances in colour science technology is clinically proven, experts at the International Association of Dental Research (IADR) conference have noted. October 17, 2011 In "Health" YOUR 32 set of teeth help you talk and chew, but they can also make or break your appearance. There’s more to keeping your pearly white teeth precisely than that a bit of brushing and the odd visit to a dentist. Of course, there is more to keeping your teeth… November 3, 2012 In "Health" Who doesn’t want dazzling white teeth without spending a fortune at the dentist? Especially when you can spend next to nothing to get them sparkling white? Old wives’ tales? Well, according to websites devoted to the unlikely fruits, spices and oils which promise to give you a knock-them-dead smile at… July 2, 2016 In "News"