United Kingdom (UK) Prime Minister, Boris Johnson warned today that migrants would be sent back if they crossed the English Channel to the UK. The Prime Minister’s comments came after a surge in attempts – with nearly 100 people taking to small boats to try to make the crossing from France to the UK in one day, the OnlineMail reported. Home Secretary Priti Patel is to seek talks with her French counterpart, the Interior Minister Christophe Castaner, to address the crisis. But the Prime Minister’s comments have been branded ‘inflammatory’ and ‘misleading’ by campaigners. Mr Johnson told reporters: ‘Clearly the most important thing is to stop them coming across from France, so we are working very closely with the French authorities. ‘The point I would just make to people thinking of making this journey – one, it is very hazardous, you may think the weather looks great but it’s a very, very dangerous thing to do. ‘The second thing is – we will send you back. The UK should not be regarded as a place where you could automatically come and break the law by seeking to arrive illegally. ‘If you come illegally, you are an illegal migrant and I’m afraid the law will treat you as such.’
The UK has a legal obligation under what is known as the Dublin Regulation to ensure asylum applications lodged are examined and considered. Campaigners said it was important applications were not ‘pre-judged’. The Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants said: ‘The UK is perfectly capable of providing safety and a well-functioning, dignified welcome for desperate people trapped in limbo across Europe. ‘Those who are forced to take dangerous means of reaching our shores have a legal right to have their voice heard and we should be creating safe and legal routes for vulnerable people to come. ‘Johnson’s comment is misleading, designed to inflame tension and, if put in practice, would violate international law.’ Annette Elder, a partner at human rights law firm Elder Rahimi and a member of the Law Society’s immigration committee, told the PA news agency: ‘Clearly it’s not possible to say that everyone who crosses the Channel in small boats from France is going to be sent back. ‘The UK is bound by legal obligations. ‘This is another example of the way asylum seekers are criminalised. To talk about people illegally crossing the Channel – it’s inflammatory. ‘It misrepresents the situation. Everyone has a right to seek asylum.’ One way Mr Johnson could seek to tackle the crisis was by resolving problems with legal processes so they worked more effectively, she added.
Dr Lisa Doyle, director of advocacy at the Refugee Council, said: ‘The fact that people are attempting to cross one of the world’s busiest and most dangerous shipping lanes highlights the sense of desperation that is gripping so many of the people stuck in northern France. ‘It is vital that all governments in Europe work together to ensure that people do not feel forced to take such extreme and desperate risks, rather than threaten those who do. ‘If the UK offered more safe and regular routes by which people can reach safety and be reunited with their loved ones here, they would not be forced to take these risks. This requires action by the Government, such as widening the definition of family members eligible to reunite under refugee family reunion rules.’ UK OnlineMail reported that the Liberal Democrat shadow home secretary Christine Jardine branded the comments ‘unlawful and inhumane’, adding: ‘It is just plain wrong for Boris Johnson to label refugees crossing the Channel as ‘illegal migrants’. ‘Quite apart from the dehumanising language, there is nothing illegal about seeking sanctuary in the UK and it is shameful that we have a Prime Minister who says it is. ‘We know that many of these people have fled persecution in Iran. For the Prime Minister to casually dismiss their rights to asylum with no evidence whatsoever is unlawful and inhumane.’ She said the way to stop the crossings was through an ‘an effective and compassionate response’ with safer legal routes to the sanctuary and a ‘stronger’ Border Force. Downing Street refused to comment further and a spokeswoman said ‘we cannot elaborate’ when asked by PA if the Prime Minister was proposing the UK breached its legal responsibility in this matter. The row came after a boat carrying 11 migrants is intercepted off the coast a Dover the morning after a day in which more than 50 others were intercepted trying to reach Britain on small boats. The group, made up of nine men and two women, arrived crammed in a small boat and have been taken in for quizzing by immigration officials. They all presented themselves as either Iran or Niger nationals after arriving at 9 am. They were picked up by a Border Force coastal patrol vessel and brought into Dover. All of them were medically assessed and found to be well. An onlooker said: ‘I saw this tiny little dinghy coming in and I thought that is tiny for a fishing boat. ‘I got out my telescope for bird watching and realised it was clearly migrants coming in about a mile offshore. ‘They suddenly cut the engines and stopped and waited. I saw from one direction a lifeboat coming and the other side a border force boat. ‘They threw out life jackets and people got onto the Border Force boat.’ Authorities were yesterday warned the situation is descending into a ‘summer of chaos’ as migrants were rescued off the Kent and Sussex seaside towns of Deal, Dover, Rye and Hastings. Border Force officers intercepted the first boat attempting to cross the Dover Strait yesterday at around 4 am and brought it back to Dover. A second boat, containing 11 migrants, was intercepted at 5am and a third arrived at around 10am. Migrants on those boats were also brought to Dover to be interviewed by Home Office immigration officials. ALSO READ: Suspected herdsmen rape, kill 67 yrs old woman in Enugu A further 16 migrants – including a child of around three and two women – were brought to shore at Rye Harbour in East Sussex at around 3.30pm. On Wednesday, two boats carrying 21 male migrants, including one boy, were also intercepted. More than 1,200 people have attempted the crossing since January this year and at least 845 have made it to the UK. The dangerous crossings are continuing despite fears a second migrant may have died making the journey. Officials in France have said a male swimmer who tried to cross on Sunday night is ‘probably’ a migrant, according to reports. If confirmed, it would mean two migrants have now died crossing the strait. A Belgian national who was sailing told officials in France he had seen a ‘man in the water calling for help in English’ with a belt and empty plastic bottles 13 miles off Dunkirk. A source told the France Info news website the man is ‘probably’ a migrant. Last week, an Iranian woman was feared to be the first to die – she was presumed drowned after a boat carrying 20 migrants ran into poor weather conditions. New British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was congratulated on Wednesday by friend and foe alike, led by Russian President Vladimir Putin who said he hoped for an improvement in current icy ties with London. July 24, 2019 In "Foreign" Leaving the European Union "does not mean leaving Europe", Britain's new foreign minister and leading Brexit campaigner Boris Johnson said Thursday. July 14, 2016 In "News" In a free country such as the UK, Johnson is entitled to his opinion, but he seems to have momentarily forgotten that his freedom stops where that of others’ begins June 23, 2019 In "Diaspora Matters"