Chief ‘Timi Alaibe, the frontline contestant for the PDP ticket in the Bayelsa State governorship race has asked his supporters to maintain peace as issues arising from the list of returning and electoral officials for the ad-hoc delegate elections are being addressed by the party leadership at the national level. Alaibe who is objecting to the alleged unilateral inclusion of certain names on the list contrary to the party constitution and guidelines for the conduct of a peaceful primary in a statement in Yenagoa said the names were inserted to put certain aspirants, especially those of the Restoration Group, at advantage. The former Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs sees this as a deliberate calculation to create confusion and frustration in their futile desire to destabilise his aspiration to lead Bayelsa State. ALSO READ: INEC begins distribution of 219,935 uncollected PVCs in Bayelsa, Kogi on Sept. 2 He declared, “They have failed this time around because no degree of intrigues, no amount of manipulation and propaganda can push me out of this race. Nothing will change my decision to lift the lot of our people through purposeful leadership. I am here to stay and together we will win.” He said the method that is making the primary in Kogi State a smooth and rancour-free exercise is being thwarted in Bayelsa State for very narrow and selfish reasons. “The irreducible minimum” according to him, “is to provide a level-playing field for all aspirants to test their acceptability among the delegates to the primary election.” He pleaded with the party leadership to avoid decisions that could imperil the chances of the PDP in the main election. “While winning to us is not a do or die affair, the process of choosing the party flag bearer should be made unquestionably transparent such that in the end, the outcome would be acceptable to all so that we could stand as one to face the real opponent” Alaibe said. He told his supporters that appropriate steps had been taken to notify the party leadership of the on-going attempts to compromise the primary election processes and expressed confidence in the capacity of the party’s national leadership to right every wrong. “Our supporters and friends should, therefore, remain calm and stand firm believing that the national leadership of our great party would intervene and do the right thing,” he advised. AHEAD of the rescheduled primary by All Progressives Congress, APC, to pick its flagbearer for the December 5, governorship election in Bayelsa State, the battle to clinch the ticket is assuming a dangerous dimension, as one of the contenders, Timi Alaibe, yesterday, raised alarm over alleged plots to smear his… September 29, 2015 In "News" A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and former Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, (NDDC), Chief Timi Alaibe on Friday defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), with over 6,200 supporters. October 6, 2018 In "News" YENAGOA—Bayelsa State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, formally welcomed a former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and former Special Adviser to the President on Presidential Amnesty Programme, Chief Timi Alaibe to the party. November 2, 2018 In "News"