It was the gathering of stars at the weekend as over 30 Nollywood actors, among other dignitaries from different sectors gathered for the premiere of the most talked about movie of the season, ‘ The Millions’. With a grand prize of N500,000 for the best dressed guests at the premiere, which was themed ‘Millionaire Gangster,’ stars such as Ramsey Nouah, Shirley Ann, Ayo Makun (AY), Nancy Isime, Ernest Obi, Anthony Monjaro, Judith Audu, Ali Nuhu, Tchidi Chikere, Chika Lann, Bolanle Ninalowo, Broda Shaggi, Samuel Olatunji, and a host of others came dressed like Millionaire Gangsters to watch for the first time the much publicized movie. The movie producer, Chika Lann stated that ‘The Millions’ is a departure from the usual story-line that has been stereotyped in Nollywood and that she had fun working on the project despite the fact that it’s her first time producing a movie. Your emotional appeal a gambit doomed to fail, Presidency tells Atiku(Opens in a new browser tab) “I chose this concept because it’s different, it’s brilliant, and this story is different from what you have been seeing in the industry. Working on this project was fun and to be honest, it was a bitter-sweet experience because despite being a first time producer, I chose to work with A-list actors. It takes a brave mind to do that. Trying to get the actors together, finding good locations and being disturbed by thugs were some of the challenges I faced. I saw every actor on this project in the characters of this story; I didn’t just choose them because I wanted to use them but rather because of the story line and they interpreted it perfectly,” she said. ‘The Millions’ which has been tagged the biggest heist film of the century tells the story of some con artists coming together to work on stealing a huge sum of money and the failure of the operation put their lives on the line. The mission led to betrayal, friendship and finding true love. Chika Lann, an ex-international model and TV personality who became an internet sensation over the claim that she makes her hair with 40 million naira, has released the official poster to her film titled: The Millions. August 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" WHILE many people have described 2011 as a year that gave us “new songs, new moments and sweet memories" that will see us through to 2012. For the Nigerian movie industry, the outgoing year remains a mixed bag of woes and laughter writes BENJAMIN NJOKU December 24, 2011 In "Home Video People" With a colourful reception held immediately after the church service, actress Mercy Johnson’s wedding to her heartthrob, Odianose Okojie last weekend, climaxed the month-long controversies that preceded the wedding. September 3, 2011 In "Home Video People"