Enugu State Government has appointed the former Inspector General of Police, Mr. Ogbonna Onovo, as Security Consultant. The appointment was contained in a statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Simon Uchenna Ortuanya. Chief Onovo who hails from Enugu State, recently served as the Chairman of the Sectoral Ad-hoc Committee on Security, constituted by Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, alongside 11 other committees that reviewed various sectors of the state government and recommended roadmaps for optimized service delivery and advancement of good governance in the state. Former IGP Onovo’s appointment, according to the statement, is part of the proactive measures being put in place by the state government to enhance the security of the state. Breaking: Lagos Taskforce arrests 123 suspected hoodlums from Jigawa(Opens in a new browser tab) In another development, the state government disclosed its plan, based on professional advice, to commence fixing of sensitive potholes created by persistent rainfall. The government explained that the rains had made it difficult for the application of hot rolled asphaltic wearing course for the pavement and surfacing of the affected potholes, adding that it will complete the remaining ones immediately after the rainy season. Vanguard Former Inspector General of Police, Ogbonna Okechukwu Onovo, assumed office on July 24, 2009 and was sworn in by late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua after the retirement of his predecessor, Sir Mike Mbama Okiro. September 8, 2010 In "News" ACTING President Goodluck Jonathan, yesterday, expressed shock over the sudden death of former Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Abubakar Rimi, and has directed the Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Ogbonnaya Onovo to investigate the robbery incident which apparently led to his death. April 5, 2010 In "News" Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Friday received report from the sectoral ad-hoc committee on security recently constituted by his administration alongside 11 other committees to review various sectors of governance and design roadmaps to optimize service delivery and advance good governance in the state. July 26, 2019 In "News"