Abuja —The House of Representatives has commenced enquiry into alleged abandonment of capital projects in Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta and Rivers states. The House Ad-hoc Committee on Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC,  leading the inquest, is Mr Nicholas Ossai. According to a statement Vanguard obtained yesterday, the committee also summoned governors of Niger Delta states, ministries and other agencies of government to explain their roles in the abandonment of the projects. $9bn Damages: The Same Fool and His Money(Opens in a new browser tab) Those summoned  are Ministries of Niger Delta, Justice, Finance, NDDC, Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN; Accountant General of Federation; Auditor-General; Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC;  Independent Corrupt Practices and Related Offence Commission, ICPC; all registered contractors with NDDC; traditional institutions; international donor agencies; civil society organizations; non-governmental organisations; community leaders in Niger Delta; governments of Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Edo, Imo, Delta, Rivers and Ondo states. The probe commences in two weeks through a public hearing at the National Assembly Vanguard THE hiccups which characterised the execution of some capital projects by the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs has been blamed on the activities of members of the House of Representatives Committee on Niger Delta, who erroneously inserted their constituency projects in the 2009 budget in place of popular projects outlined… November 30, 2009 In "News" t is hoped that this issue will be looked into and the appropriate corrections effected in the nomenclature of these two government agencies. When this has been achieved, the wrong perception of all oil producing states being Niger Delta state will be removed from the consciousness of many Nigerian. When… January 10, 2015 In "Energy Updates" In the new board, the President nominated Air vice Marshal Larry Koinyan (Rtd.) of Bayelsa State as Chairman of the new Board and Mr. Chibuzor Ugwoha of Rivers State as the Managing Director of the Commission. July 3, 2009 In "News"