The Nigeria Army has warned militants operating in the Bakassi creeks to desist or face the full weight of the law as they might not be lucky like the defunct Bakassi Strike Force, BSF. The General Officer Commanding,6 Division, Maj. Gen Jamil Sarham gave the warning at the weekend in Calabar while commissioning an 8bedroom transit accommodation and fortified guard room. Speaking at Eburutu Military Cantonment, Gen. Sarham said the Army was aware of activities of some groups in the creeks of Bakassi but added that they might not be as lucky as BSF. His words:” I wish to put it on record that it was as a result of the sector’s concerted kinectic and non-kinectic operations that compelled the defunct Bakassi Strike Force, BSF. Also read: Oil firms begin compliance with FG’s directive on stevedoring contractors “Though the second and third phases of the programme which involves rehabilitation and reintegration are yet to be embarked upon. “I am also aware that other militant groups have taken over the creeks again and posing a serious threat to law-abiding people of the state who ply the waterways. ” I want to assure you that these groups of militants may not be as lucky as the defunct Bakassi Strike Force that has embraced peace. “A lot has been achieved despite the quantum challenges associated with riverine operations which is prevalent in this region,” he stated. Vanguard Groups that go by the names Bakassi Freedom Fighters (BFF) and Bakassi Salvation Front (BSF) surrendered weapons to the Federal Government at the Bakassi local government area secretariat in Bakassi, Cross River State weekend. September 27, 2009 In "Latest News" A group in the Niger Delta region, Bakassi Strike Force (BSF), has expressed the desire to lay down their arms if the Federal Government addressed their concerns. November 2, 2016 In "News" BAKASSI- WANTED leader of the Baksassi Strike Force, BSF, in Cross River State, self-styled General Simply Benjamin, aka G1, spoke from his hideout, weekend, saying, he was neither a terrorist nor a Niger Delta Avenger, NDA, member, but a freedom fighter, fighting for the autonomy of his homeland, Bakassi, “illegally”… October 18, 2016 In "News"