Aviation stakeholders say the Ministry of Aviation portfolio can be assigned to any of the new ministers-designate who has the ability to understand the numerous problems militating against the growth of the sector and be willing to confront and solve them. The stakeholders, who spoke with Sunday Vanguard on condition of anonymity, said it is “obvious the former Minister of State, Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, will be returned to his former portfolio” when asked about the qualities they feel the in-coming Aviation Minister should possess. Also read: UNICEF sensitizes stakeholders on Household mapping, enumeration of out-of-school children in Bauchi A professional with one of the domestic airlines said all that the new minister will need is the ability to listen to genuine advice and act on them. According to him, the problems of the aviation sector have been identified by the panels set up by former ministers. The new minister, he said, should dust-up the reports and act on them after listening to advice from aviation professionals. Another highly placed aviation expert said the ability to carry aviation stakeholders along when introducing new or reviewing old policies will go a long way to assist the new minister to succeed. Vanguard The gale of sack at the Presidential Villa continued, yesterday, as President Goodluck Jonathan fired the controversial Minister of Aviation, Stella Oduah and dropped three others. Those dropped by the President included the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Godsday Orubebe; Minister of Police Affairs, Caleb Olubolade and the Minister of… February 13, 2014 In "Headlines" The unions recalled that the ministry was merged with the ministry of transport during the regime of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, but did not yield the expected result, which later led to its de-merging by late President Umaru Yar’Adua. They insist that the merging of the two ministries was as… June 21, 2015 In "News" Former Minister of Aviation , Chief Osita Chidoka has revealed why he could not midwife a national carrier for Nigeria before the expiration of his tenure, just as he identified and explained some of the problems bedeviling the aviation ministry and its parastatals. May 31, 2015 In "News"