ABUJA—THE National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, has asked the Federal Government to grant the detained leader of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, Sheik Ibrahim El Zakzaky, access to medical treatment. The Commission, in a statement by its Director, Corporate Affairs & External Linkages, Mr Lambert Oparah said there was a need “for dialogue in handling the controversial issue of the Leader of the IMN, Sheik El- Zakzaky”. It warned security agencies not to infringe on the constitutional right of Nigerians to hold a peaceful protest. “Reacting to the sudden return of the Sheik few days after his medical trip to India, the Executive Secretary of the Commission, Tony Ojukwu said the IMN Leader’s right to health and medical treatment should not be compromised under any circumstances. Also read: IMN, El-Zakzaky: Stop mocking us over Boko Haram terrorism, Arewa group chides Ohanaeze, Afenifere “The Executive Secretary who had earlier commended the Federal Government for granting the IMN Leader the leave to undergo treatment in India regretted that the whole exercised was botched over a disagreement between the Sheik and security operatives calling both parties to employ dialogue as a way of resolving the issues. “Ojukwu also called on  IMN members to tow the path of peace and desist from the use of violence and hate speech in expressing their grievances so as not to precipitate the breakdown of law and order.” He further called on security agencies to ensure adequate protection of Nigerians and grant them the constitutional right to peaceful protest without hindrance. “The NHRC has been at the forefront of finding a lasting solution to the protracted conflict between the IMN and security agencies following a faceoff between the army and members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria IMN in Zaria over 4 years ago”, the statement read. Vanguard The National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, on Monday, urged the federal government to come up with appropriate political and legal approaches for the resolution of the lingering case involving the Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) and its leader, Sheik Ibrahim El-Zakzaky. April 23, 2018 In "News" National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, has expressed concern over the incessant clashes between the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, and security agencies, which have resulted in loss of lives and destruction of property. July 26, 2019 In "News" Officers of the FCT Police Command, Monday, resumed clash with members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) also known as Shiites over agitations for the release of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, who has been unlawfully detained for over two years. April 23, 2018 In "News"