Deputy President of the Senate, Sen.Ovie Omo-Agege, has congratulated the people of Delta on the 28th anniversary of the creation of the state. Omo-Agege in a statement on Tuesday in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Yomi Odunuga, commended the people for sustaining prevailing peace in the state. ” Though Delta has not attained its prime place of socio-economic development among  progressive states in Nigeria, the state has made remarkable improvement in human capital development,” he said. He expressed optimism that the state would witness more advancement and developments in the nearest future, given the sustenance of peace and love among the people of the state. Sanwo-Olu’s cabinet: Lagos assembly drills Bello, Omotoso, six other nominees(Opens in a new browser tab) “On this day in 1991, Delta was created by the military administration of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida fom the old Bendel State. “On behalf of the people of Delta Central Senatorial District, I wish to congratulate the governor, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa and the people of the state on the occasion of the 28th anniversary of the creation of the state. “As a people, we should be happy that we have remained peaceful and united in the last 28 years. “As we celebrate, we must sustain the peace and embrace the things that bind us together as a people rather than the things that portend to separate us. “I am committed to peace and unity of Delta  and I will do everything within my power to ensure that we maintain the prevailing peace for a better Delta,” he said.(NAN), Vanguard Foremost Niger Delta activist and traditional prime minister of Tuomo Kingdom in Burutu and Ekeremo Local Government Areas of Delta and Bayelsa States, Chief Mike Loyibo, has congratulated the Deputy Senate President and lawmaker representing Delta Central senatorial district, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege on his 56th birthday anniversary. August 3, 2019 In "News" Delta State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has congratulated Senator Ovie Omo-Agege on his election on the floor of the Red Chamber as the Deputy Senate President of the Ninth Senate of Nigeria. June 16, 2019 In "News" Delta State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke, has congratulated Senator Ovie Omo-Agege on his election on the floor of the Red Chamber as the Deputy Senate President of the Ninth Senate of Nigeria. June 16, 2019 In "News"