President-General, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Chief Nnia Nwodo, has decried “the growing tendency of some detractors of Enugu State Government,” who he said, “are out to destabilise the peace and tranquillity in the state.” Chief Nwodo spoke in reaction to the death of Mrs Regina Mba, found dead in farmland in Nchatancha Nike, in Enugu East Local Government Area, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Chief Emeka Attamah. Also read: Desertification threatens livelihood of 40m Nigerians – Ministry of Environment He “enjoined the state government not to be distracted by enemies of progress, but to continue to carry out measures it has put in place to secure lives and properties in the state.” He called on security agencies to unravel the conspiracy and tendency of hoodlums, who are attempting to make the state insecure through incessant kidnappings and killings, which hitherto were absent. He, therefore, called for a thorough investigation into the death of the woman in Nchatancha Nike, stating that though the executive of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in Enugu State had visited the home of the victim, it was still necessary for him to add his voice to the condemnation of the act. Vanguard The apex Igbo cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, has described as spurious, mendacious and the height of blackmail for the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra , IPOB, to outline what it called the preconditions for peace between it and Ohanaeze Ndigbo. August 10, 2018 In "News" Enugu----President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, has denied allegations from a faction of the organisation that the leadership of the apex Igbo socio- cultural association collected N300 million to endorse the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP's Presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and his deputy, Peter Obi. February 15, 2019 In "News" Former minister for Information, Chief Nnia Nwodo has emerged the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Nwodo polled 242 votes to beat his only then, remaining contender, Prof. Chiweyite Ejike who polled 13 votes. Prof. Chiweyite is the Former Vice Chancelllor of then Anambra State University of Science and Technology, ASUTECH. January 10, 2017 In "News"