The long-awaited list of the ministerial-designates for the second term in office of President Muhammadu Buhari has been released and former ministers, Rotimi Amaechi, Lai Mohammed, Chris Ngige, Adamu Adamu and a host of others retained their portfolios. This is just as former Lagos State governor, Babatunde Fashola, who had Works, Power and Housing would only be in charge of Works and Housing and Engr. Sale Mamman got Power Ministry. New entrants, Festus Keyamo, Sunday Dare, Gbemisola Saraki Minister of State for Niger Delta, Minister of Youth and Sport and Minister of Transportation respectively. See full list 1) Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah – Abia, Mines, and Steel Development, State
2) Muhammed Musa Bello – Adamawa, FCT
3) Sen. Godswill Obot Akpabio – Akwa Ibom, Niger Delta
4) Chris Ngige – Anambra, Labour & Employment
5) Sharon Ikeazor – Anambra, Environment, State
6) Adamu Adamu – Bauchi, Education
7) Amb Maryam Katagum – Bauchi, Industry, Trade and Investment, State
8) Timipre Silva – Bayelsa, Petroleum, State
9) Sen. George Akume – Benue, Special Duties
10) Mustapha Baba Shehuri – Borno, Agriculture, State
11) Godwin Jedi-Agba – Cross River, Power, State
12) Festus Keyamo – Delta, Niger Delta, State
13) Ogbonnaya Onu – Ebonyi, Science, and Technology
14) Dr. Osagie Ehanire – Edo, Health
15) Clement Ikanade Agba – Edo, Budget and National Planning, State
16) Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo – Ekiti, Industry, Trade, and Investment
17) Geoffrey Onyeama – Enugu, Foreign Affairs
18)Dr. Ali Isa Pantami – Gombe, Communication
19) Emeka Nwajuba – Imo, Education, State
20) Suleiman Adamu – Jigawa, Water Resources
21) Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed – Kaduna, Finance, Budget, and National Planning
22) Dr. Mohammad Mahmoud – Kaduna, Environment
23) Mohammed Sabo Nanono – Kano, Agriculture
24) Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (rtd) – Kano, Defence
25) Hadi Sirika – Katsina, Aviation
26) Abubakar Malami – Kebbi, HAGF and Minister of Justice
27) Ramatu Tijani Aliyu – Kogi, FCT, State
28) Lai Mohammed – Kwara, Information and Culture
29) Gbemisola Saraki – Kwara, Transportation, State
30) Babatunde Raji Fashola – Lagos, Works and Housing 31) Adeleke Mamora – Lagos, Health, State
32) Mohammed A. Abdullahi – Nasarawa, Science & Tech, State
33) Amb. Zubairu Dada – Niger, Foreign Affairs, State
34) Olamilekan Adegbite – Ogun, Mines & Steel Devpt
35) Sen. Omotayo Alasuadura – Ondo, Labour, State
36) Rauf Aregbesola – Osun, Interior
37) Sunday Dare – Oyo, Youth, and Sports
38) Dame Pauline Tallen – Plateau, Women Affairs
39) Rotimi Amaechi – Rivers, Transportation
40) Mohammed Maigari Dangyadi – Sokoto, Police Affairs
41) Engr. Sale Mamman – Taraba, Power
42) Abubakar D. Aliyu – Yobe, Works and Housing, State
43) Sadiya Umar Faruk – Zamfara, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management, and Social Development Vanguard