Senator Shehu Sani, has said that Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB spanked the wrong Horse with the Wrong Whip on the wrong track has condemned the attack on the former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg Germany. The immediate past Deputy President of the Senate, Enweremadu was physically assaulted by some members of Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB, in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday at the 2nd Annual Igbo Cultural Festival organised by the Ndi-Igbo Germany community, Sani on his Twitter handle said: IKE;IPOB spanked the wrong Horse with the Wrong Whip on the wrong track. “The attack on Senator Ekweremadu in Germany stands unreservedly condemned. “Whatever is the political or philosophical agenda of the people that attacked him, the strategy of physical assault or violence cannot lead them to success.” IKE;IPOB spanked the wrong Horse with the Wrong Whip on the wrong track. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) August 18, 2019  The attack on Senator @iamekweremadu in Germany stands unreservedly condemned.Whatever is the political or philosophical agenda of the people that attacked him,the strategy of physical assault or violence cannot lead them to success. — Senator Shehu Sani (@ShehuSani) August 17, 2019  The immediate past Deputy President of the Senate, Sen. Ike Enweremadu was physically assaulted by some members of the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB, in Nuremberg, Germany, on Saturday. Enweremadu confirmed the attack in a statement released by his Media Assistant, Uche Anichukwu in Abuja. A 64-second video about the attack had gone viral on the social media earlier on Saturday. In the video, Ekweremadu was seen being violently questioned over his alleged conspiracy with the Federal Government to proscribe the IPOB in the South East and killing several of its followers. There were initial speculations on the veracity of the video where the senator was attacked with eggs by the irate IPOB members. Attack Ebonyi, Enugu, Abia Anambra states govs, IPOB tells members The Senator who also gave an account of the event on his social media handle, @iamekweremdu, however, assured that he was safe. He condemned the attack and said he had immediately reported it to the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Mr Yusuf Tuggar. He said: “I attended the Second Annual Cultural Festival and Convention organised by Ndi-Igbo Germany in Nurnberg today where I was billed to give a keynote address along with the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, who, however could not make it eventually. “I was given a resounding welcome by Ndigbo in Germany and everything went smoothly until some men, who identified themselves as IPOB members stormed the venue and began to complain about the killings in the South East, stressing that there would be no Igbo event at the venue. “I tried to engage them, but when they became unruly, I had to leave the venue. The organisers also invited the police and I was accompanied out of the venue. Fayose, Fani-kayode decry IPOB’s attack on Ike Ekweremadu “Much as I am disappointed in their conduct, especially as I am one of the persons, who have spoken up on justice for Ndigbo, the Python Dance, judicial killings in Igbo land and elsewhere both on the floor of the Senate and in my written and personal engagements with the Presidency and the media as well as rallied the South East Senate Caucus to secure Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s release with Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe taking him on bail to douse tension in the South East, I nevertheless do not hold this to heart against them, for they know not what they do. “I have received thousands of solidarity calls and messages from well-meaning Ndigbo. I want to assure them that I am hail and hearty. I have also spoken with the Nigerian Ambassador to Germany, Ambassador Yusuf Tuggar.” Vanguard