Barely 24 hours the United State of America, US, imposed a new visa fees on Nigerians seeking US visa, the federal government has bowed to pressure and reduced visa fee of US citizens seeking Nigerian visa. Disclosing this on Wednesday, Honourable Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, said that the ministry’s attention was drawn to the introduction of reciprocity fee for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications. FG declares Wednesday May 1, public holiday to mark Workers’ Day(Opens in a new browser tab) In view of that, therefore, the ministry opined, “The attention of the Ministry of Interior has been drawn to the introduction of reciprocity of Visa Fees by the United States of America. The Ministry acknowledges that there were engagements with the United States Embassy on the issue and in the aftermath, a Committee was set up to conduct due diligence in line with the Ministry’s extant policy on reciprocity of Visa fees,” the statement read. “The Committee had concluded its assignment and submitted a Report but the issuance of authorisation for its recommendations was delayed due to transition processes in the Ministry at the policy level. Monetary policy rate cut, a positive move – Analyst(Opens in a new browser tab) “The Honourable Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has approved the decrease of Visa charges payable by US citizens in line with reciprocity policy as recommended by the Committee. “Accordingly, the Comptroller-General of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, has been directed to implement the decrease in Nigeria’s Visa charges to US Citizens with effect from Thursday, 29th August, 2019.” Vanguard In what appears to be a retaliatory move, the United States government has announced a hike in price for all classes of visa for Nigerians, effective August 29, 2019. August 28, 2019 In "News" The United States Embassy in Nigeria, Tuesday introduced a reciprocity fee for all approved applications for non-immigrant visas in B, F, H1B, I, L, and R visa classifications. August 27, 2019 In "News" Unless the Federal Government reviews its visa policy with the United States of America, Nigerians will no longer enjoy visas to the US with two-year validity, according to an Executive Order issued on Friday by President Donald Trump. January 30, 2017 In "Headlines"