A Nigerian medical doctor, Dr Kikelomo Anunobi, has been commended for heroically saving the life of a member of the public that was choking to death. Anunobi, a psychiatrist at Cheswold Park Hospital, a specialist mental health hospital in Doncaster, England, was off duty and having refreshment with some of her colleagues in a restaurant when her attention was drawn to a man who was obviously choking. Anunobi immediately went to the man’s aid, applying emergency procedures that saved his life. She continued administering First Aid until paramedics arrived to take him to the hospital. In a reaction, Cheswold Park Hospital on its Twitter handle @cheswoldH  remarked: “While she was out for tea with colleagues one of Cheswold Park Hospital’s doctors, Dr. Kike Anunobi aided a member of the public who was choking and saved the man’s life and kept working on him until the paramedics arrived to take him to Doncaster Royal Infirmary. “Everyone at Cheswold Park Hospital would like to commend Dr. Kike Anunobi for her act of heroism and we are incredibly proud to have her as part of our team.”  Cheswold Park is a specialist mental health hospital in Doncaster, England in the UK for men with acute mental illness, personality disorder, challenging behavioral ASC or a learning disorder. The hospital is rated Overall Good by the  Care Quality Commission, CQC, an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care of the United Kingdom. Vanguard The death of 29-year-old Jonathan, a graduate of Mass Communication from one the nation’s universities will forever remain in the minds of his parents. Jonathan, had bid farewell to his mother that fateful morning after he had boarded a commercial bus from Owerri to Lagos but little did he know… September 18, 2011 In "Health" When it comes to the Nigeria movie industry, Nollywood, Eucharia Anunobi needs no introduction as she hit limelight with the movie Glamour Girls way over two decades ago. Perhaps what many do not know are the bold steps she took as a woman to get to the enviable position she… July 29, 2016 In "News" When HIV/AIDS was discovered in the US in the early 1980s, nobody believed it would reach a point that Africa would become the epicentre .The whites that were infected accepted their fate and ensured that they lived positively,informing anybody they were to have sexual contacts with about their health status,… September 1, 2014 In "Ebola Outbreak"