The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Total Nigeria have expressed their readiness to work together to grow daily crude oil and gas production and reserves to meet the national target of 40 billion barrels. Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Malam Mele Kyari, and the Managing Director of Total Nigeria, Mr Mike Sangster, made the commitment during a visit by Total top management to team NNPC Towers in Abuja on Tuesday. Kyari in a statement by Mr Ndu Ughamadu, the spokesman for the corporation, said that Total Nigeria was one of NNPC’s most important partners with visible outcomes. “Total Nigeria in the last five years has very visible outcomes that we have seen and I assure you that we will work together to progress all efforts to grow production and national reserves. “Also, I want to put on record that your downstream company has been very supportive in the supply of gasoline into our country,” he said. We’ll engage countries to return all our stolen funds – Onyeama(Opens in a new browser tab) He assured Total Nigeria of very transparent and accountable relationship with acceptable frameworks. Earlier, Sangster expressed Total’s firm belief in the Nigerian oil and gas industry and its readiness to deploy solutions to the challenges facing the industry. “Total Nigeria will build on recent progress in many areas such as cash-call arrears and our long-standing partnership. “In partnership with NNPC, the company has developed the last three Floating Production Storage Offloading’s (FPSOs) in Nigeria and wants to build on this,” he said. (NAN). Vanguard The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, Thursday, called on the Chinese government to increase its investment in infrastructural development in the Nigerian petroleum industry, especially as the country's investments in Nigeria have reached $16 billion. August 15, 2019 In "Business" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says it has signed a 3.15 billion dollars Financing and Technical Services Agreement between Sterling Oil Exploration and other partners for the development of Oil Mining Lease (OML) 13. July 23, 2019 In "News" lagos—The Nigeria National petroleum Corporation, NNPC, said yesterday, that it was working with its partners to grow the national reserve to 40  billion barrels by 2025 and improve crude oil production to three million barrels per day. August 6, 2019 In "News"