Following reports that the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari, influenced the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to investigate the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, the commission has on Monday denied it, saying that nobody forced it to investigate Oyo-Ita. Disclosing this via its official facebook handle, the commission opined the investigation was evidence-based. Read the full statement below: “The attention of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has been drawn to reports by a section of the media, insinuating that the ongoing investigation of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita by the Commission was instigated by the Chief of Staff to the President, Alhaji Abba Kyari. “The Commission wishes to state that there is no truth in these claims, and urges the general public to disregard the reports as the handiwork of mischief makers. Buhari to ministers: Channel your requests, executive matters through Kyari, SGF(Opens in a new browser tab) “For the avoidance of doubt, investigation by the EFCC is evidence-based. Most often,they are triggered by petitions or intelligence. In the case of the HoS, Oyo- Ita’s investigation, it was prompted by intelligence received by the Commission. “The EFCC is an independent agency created by law to fight corruption without fear or favour. In the discharge of its mandate, the Commission does not take instructions from extraneous bodies neither will it lend itself to be used to settle scores by anyone. “The Commission again wishes to appeal to the media to be circumspect in their reportage and not lend themselves to actions that could befuddle the activities of the Commission.” Vanguard  The Economic Crimes and Financial Crimes Commission has denied that its recent investigation into how the Head of Service, Winifred Oyo-Ita, allegedly got embroiled in a contract fraud to the tune of N3 billion, was not triggered by pressure from the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari. August 26, 2019 In "News" By Anthony Ogbonna The Nigerian Senate, Tuesday, began inquiries into the circumstances surrounding the reinstatement of Abdulrasheed Maina, a former Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms as a director in the ministry of Interior. October 24, 2017 In "News" The report on the circumstances of Abdulrasheed Maina’s recall and posting to the Ministry of Interior has been submitted to the President’s Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari. October 24, 2017 In "News"