A woman whose name was given as Chinaza Ukaonu, has been arrested by the Imo state police command alongside two nurses for allegedly selling her baby for N500,000. The Imo state police public Relation Officer, PPRO, Orlando Ikeokwu, who confirmed this yesterday in Owerri, said that the arrest of the woman was made possible by her husband, Promise Ukaonu, who reported the wife to the police, suspecting that the wife was telling him lies about the whereabouts of their child. Profile of the Minister of State for Education, Hon. Emeka Nwajiuba(Opens in a new browser tab) Arrested with Mrs. Ukaonu, was an alleged buyer of the child, Amadi Chioma.  Also, two others said to be nurses who took care of Mrs. Ukaonu, during the time she was pregnant, Esomonu Dorathy and Eke Catherine were also arrested. The police image maker also told Saturday Vanguard, that the child has been recovered. Narrating how the police made the arrest the PPRO, said: “On the 01/08/19, operatives of the Command acting on reasonable information arrested, Chinaza Ukaonu; Amadi Chioma; Esomonu Dorathy; Eke Catherine all females. “It is noteworthy that Chinaza Ukaonu, left the house on the said day with an eight (8) months old pregnancy on the pretext that she was going to stay awhile with her brother who stays at Ubomiri, Mbaitoli LGA.  Upon investigation, the husband, one  Promise Ukaonu, discovered she wasn’t there. Isheri Day tragedy: We don’t have money for Dare’s burial—Family(Opens in a new browser tab) “However, a month later he received a call that his wife had a still born.  When he demanded to see the remains of the child, the wife  told him that she wrapped it in a nylon bag and disposed of it.  Not satisfied with the story, he reported the matter to the Police, which led to the arrest of Chinaza Ukaonu, who then confessed of having sold the child to Amadi Chioma,  for the sum of five hundred thousand naira (N500,000), with the help of the two nurses Esomonu Dorathy, and  Eke Catherine, who assisted her through the child birth. “However, the child has been recovered and investigation is at advance stage.” Vanguard By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri A woman whose name was given as Chinaza Ukaonu has been arrested by the Imo state police command alongside two nurses for allegedly selling her baby for N500,000. The Imo state police public Relation Officer, PPRO, Orlando Ikeokwu, who confirmed this yesterday in Owerri, said that… August 23, 2019 In "Metro" These are, indeed, times when odd happenings throw you off balance. And you begin to wonder, what could prompt a mother or a father to sell his or her child? Or how do parents who sell their children explain the motive? Or at what point do illiteracy, hunger, lack or… May 12, 2019 In "Just Human" Child Trafficking in the Eastern part of Nigeria is a lucrative trade. In Nigeria, human trafficking ranks the third most common crime after financial fraud and drug trafficking. At least 10 children are sold every day across the country, according to the UN. Globally, the traffickers earn $33 billion yearly. July 30, 2011 In "Just Human"