ABUJA–THE Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of police helicopters to tackle the increasing rate of criminal activities in the country. The helicopters were specifically meant for aerial surveillance for major cities in the South-West and North-West of the country. The development, according to the statement by the Force Public Relations Officer,Frank Mba,was part of efforts aimed at effectively curtailing crimes in the country.” Police exploring option of installing CCTV on strategic points – IGP(Opens in a new browser tab) The statement read in full: “As part of efforts aimed at effectively curtailing crimes in the country, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of Police aerial surveillance helicopters to major cities in the South-West and North-West of the country. “As part of efforts aimed at effectively curtailing crimes in the country, the Inspector-General of Police, IGP M.A Adamu, NPM, mni has ordered the deployment of Police aerial surveillance helicopters to major cities in the South-West and North-West of the country. “While the Police Air-Wing Operational Base in Abuja caters for Abuja – Kaduna highways as well as the adjoining States in the North-West and North-Central, the new base in Ondo State will cater for the adjoining states and highways straddling the South-West. “The Force therefore enjoins citizens not to panic but to go about their lawful businesses as the aerial surveillance is geared towards improving the security of lives and property in the affected areas.” Vanguard THE Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, has ordered the deployment of police helicopters to tackle the increasing rate of criminal activities in the country. August 29, 2019 In "News" The Acting Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, has deployed 55 Commissioners of Police and other Deputy Commissioners of Police to man each of the 109 senatorial zones in the country. February 15, 2019 In "News" FOLLOWING the recent killings in parts of Benue and Rivers states,the Inspector General,Ibrahim Idris,has deployed additional five units of Police Mobile Force,PMF, Police Special Forces, Police Aerial Surveillance Helicopters and Special Police Joint Intelligence and Investigation Teams to Benue and Rivers State respectively. January 6, 2018 In "News"