WARRI—A Niger Delta Group, Meinbutus Federated Communities, Warri Kingdom, Delta State, has called on Minister of Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, and Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Festus Keyamo, to  facilitate, as a matter of urgency, the completion of the Koko-Lagos Road and revival of Warri and Burutu ports in the state. Also, traditional Prime Minister of Tuomo Kingdom in Delta and Bayelsa states, Chief Mike Loyibo, has described the appointments of former governors Godswill Akpabio and  Sylva as a masterstroke for development of Niger Delta. Similarly, an All Progressives Congress, APC, leader in Delta State, Victor Ochei,  has congratulated Chibuike Amaechi on his reappointment and subsequent inauguration, as Minister of Transportation. In a congratulatory letter, Ochei, a former Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, described Amaechi’s return to the Transportation ministry as an eloquent attestation to his landmark achievements during his first tenure. He  observed that “President Buhari’s stance on retaining Amaechi at the Transportation ministry, stemmed from his impressive antecedent, replete with copious demonstration of sterling adroitness, unalloyed patriotism and selflessness. Who they are: Profiles of Buhari’s ministers(Opens in a new browser tab) He also congratulated Kayamo and Otunba Richard Adebayo, who is Minister of Trade, Industries and Investments. Meanwhile, Meinbutus Federated Communities in a statement by the Amanana-Owei, King-Jerry Prebor, congratulating the two ministers on their inauguration, said: “You both differed from other politicians in your approach to the development of Niger Delta and toed your lines, which had paid off. “You now have the opportunity of making the difference. We, the people of Meinbutus, have faith in your abilities to turn things around and use your elevated positions to bring about the needed development of the Niger Delta region. “The Olu of Warri recently visited the President on the issue of Koko-Lagos roads and revival of the ports and other things, we are in support of the stand of the Olu of Warri and we now have the opportunity through the two of you to actualise them. You can be the heroes of the Niger Delta if both of you decide to change the story and earn yourselves world recognition,” the group said. Meanwhile, Chief Loyibo while applauding the appointments of the former governors, also commended President Buhari for the reappointment of Amaechi and Abubakar Malami as Minister of Transport and Attorney-General of the Federation, describing them as Nigerians who have contributed immensely in the next level agenda of the president. He said: “On behalf of the people of Niger Delta and the Ijaw nation in particular, I will like to commend Mr. President on the appointment of Sylva, Akpabio and Keyamo as Minister of State for Petroleum, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and Minister of State for Niger Delta. “In our quest for the development of Niger Delta, we believe this is a masterstroke for development of the region, which has been bedeviled with years of underdevelopment by previous administration.” Vanguard Mr Festus Egwarewa Adeniyi Keyamo, SAN, was today sworn-in by President Muhammadu Buhari as the newly appointed Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs. August 21, 2019 In "News" Mr Festus Egwarewa Adeniyi Keyamo, SAN, was today sworn-in by President Muhammadu Buhari as the newly appointed Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs. August 21, 2019 In "News" Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, has congratulated Chief Festus Keyamo (SAN), on his appointment as Minister of State, Niger Delta. August 22, 2019 In "News"