U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday, in his Twitter page, said China’s new tariffs create a great opportunity for the U.S. to forge ahead, saying the country does not need China. Trump pledges to respond to China soonest adding that the country has lost trillions of dollars with China over the years. “Our country has lost, stupidly, trillions of dollars with China over many years. “They have stolen our intellectual property at a rate of hundreds of billions of dollars a year and they want to continue. “I won’t let that happen! We don’t need China and, frankly, would be far better off without them,’’ Trump tweeted. Also read: The weird world of Trump’s conspiracy theories The remarks come hours after China imposed a new batch of 10 and five per cent tariffs on 75 billion dollar worth of U.S. imports starting from Sept. 1 and Dec. 15, respectively. The Tariff Committee of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China has decided to introduce an additional 10 per cent and 5 per cent tariffs on 75 billion dollar worth of imported U.S. goods. Washington and Beijing have been engaged in a trade spat since 2018 when President Donald Trump announced tariffs on 50 billion dollar worth of Chinese imports justifying the move by the need to balance the trade deficit. Vanguard "It’s been 46 years since the United States President Richard Nixon visited China. In 1979, the two countries formed diplomatic relations. Since the establishment of diplomatic ties, China-U.S. relationship has been moving forward steadily, the economic and trade relations have made considerable progress. In 2017, China-U.S. trade volume reached 580… May 3, 2018 In "News" President Donald Trump tweeted that the U.S. was not in “a trade war with China,’’ hours after Beijing announced tariff hikes on 50 billion dollars worth of U.S. products. April 4, 2018 In "News" U.S. President Donald Trump has directed aides to proceed with tariffs on about another $200 billion of Chinese goods, despite Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin’s attempts to restart trade talks with China, a source familiar with the matter said. September 15, 2018 In "News"