Presidency has on Saturday reeled out the roles of the Chief of Staff to the President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF). It stated that recent media and social media reports on the responsibilities of the Chief of Staff to the President have suggested that the role has changed. “This is not the case”, it said. In a statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Garba Shehu, Presidency opined that under the Buhari II administration the role of Chief of Staff remains the same as it was under Buhari I. Read the full statement below: Power: We’ll use sector to deliver government policies – Mamman(Opens in a new browser tab) It is worth stressing that the role and responsibilities of the Chief of Staff and the method of communication and arranging scheduling between Cabinet members and the President are, in Nigeria, based on the US model, where the same system operates – and has done for decades – in precisely the same way. That role is to act as the head of the presidential administration at Aso Rock; to be an adviser to the President on any and all matters; to be the line manager for all staff at Aso Rock; and to manage appointments and scheduling for the President. In the traditional presidential system, it is a primary function of a Chief of Staff, which may vary according to the needs and desires of each President, to supervise key State House Staff, control access to the office and the person of the President, manage communications and information flow and this includes that which binds the relationship with the two other arms of government. During the President’s first term those were the responsibilities of the Chief of Staff, and they remain the same responsibilities today. There is no change. When President Buhari explained to ministers that they would be expected to communicate with him and arrange scheduling to meet with him primarily via the Chief of Staff, he did so as many of the Buhari II Cabinet ministerial appointments are new appointments and cannot therefore be expected to know how matters of liaising with the President operate. Breaking: Buhari bars Ministers from direct contact with him(Opens in a new browser tab) This is to stress that access to the President is open to ministers. It is not true that this is denied them in the Second Term. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) on the other hand is responsible for ensuring the effective coordination and monitoring of the implementation of government policies and programmes. All cabinet matters must go through him. Under this dispensation, a performance evaluation of ministers and Permanent Secretary will be maintained by the SGF. Two weeks after assuming office, they are expected to sign mandate acceptance documents. It is time to end the unnecessary controversy, for the key appointees of the President to carry out their jobs.” Vanguard The Presidency Friday said that the report in the media (not Vanguard) that President Muhammadu Buhari summoned the Chief of Staff, Abba Kyari and the Head of Service of the Federation, HoSF, Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, was baseless and unfounded, saying the President did not issue any summon. November 3, 2017 In "News" The Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP, has instituted a legal proceeding against President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government July 4, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has reappointed the former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha and the former Chief of Staff Abba Kyari. July 5, 2019 In "News"