Presidency has described the 77 suspects on FBI list as a double damage on the country, noting that the federal government is currently working with international organizations and Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, to stop internet fraud. Out of 80 persons fingered, FBI listed 77 Nigerians with bad records. They were accused of scamming people using the internet. Reacting on the issue when he appeared on Sunday Politics, a live programme on Channels Television, the senior special assistant to the president on media and publicity, Garba Shehu, described the 77 suspects on FBI list as an embarrassment to the country and a slap on our faces. Buhari to Ministers: You must work in harmony with your fellow minister(Opens in a new browser tab) According to him,“This is a double damage on every citizen of Nigeria. It is a big scare on all of us who go out of this country and are seen in this image that these our brothers have created. “We will cooperate with international organizations, the government will generate and ask for new laws from the National Assembly and there will be new executive orders that will block some of these loopholes that are being exploited by some of our fellow countrymen to go out there and embarrass and blacklist the country. “This administration will work with all nations around the globe to fight criminality. If Nigerians are involved in this thing, well hard luck to them. “The president will not stand in the way of the justice system. Every citizen that travels out of this country is expected to obey the laws of their host country. President Muhammadu Buhari is not one to excuse Nigerians from the laws of countries in which they reside. “Therefore you will expect a more vigorous engagement with National Assembly. The laws will have to change, this has got to be tackled and if it will take executive orders, this will be strengthened very rapidly.” Asked if there is direct communication between Nigeria and the American government on the incident, the presidential media aide said: “Yes, the diaspora commission is there and the Nigerian Government has taken position on this matter, it is cooperation all the way. We will deliver our mandate – Tijjani Aliyu(Opens in a new browser tab) “I think every person with a modicum of common sense knows that the action of few Nigerians is not the action of all Nigerians. We are 200 million plus in the country and you are talking about 80 Nigerians in this case, they will face the justice system, if the Nigerian Government is expected to cooperate in anyway, extradition, if it meets the requirement of our laws, they will be assisted to ensure they face justice in that country. “Nigerians are hardworking people all over the world, there are millions of our citizens out there earning legitimate living, they don’t deserve to be so tarnished.” Vanguard The Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Festus Keyamo (SAN) has refuted allegations of being involved in fraudulent activities with a suspected internet scammer, Jerry Elo Ikogho, one of the 78 Nigerians indicted in the massive financial fraud case uncovered by the American agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI. August 25, 2019 In "News" Alarmed by the report by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation indicting 77 Nigerians over Business Email Compromise and wire fraud, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission said last night that it had placed all its officers and men nationwide to track the suspects. August 25, 2019 In "News" …EFCC worked with FBI to unravel fraud By Soni Daniel The Nigerian Government said on Friday it would take drastic measures to prevent Nigerians from engaging in cybercrimes to save its image from international embarrassment.   The Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mr Ibrahim Magu, made the… August 23, 2019 In "News"