Adeyanju Deji, human right activist has asked the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu to come back to Nigeria and stop instigating his group members to attack Nigerian leaders. Disclosing this via his facebook handle, Deji frowned at those defending Kanu, and called Kanu a coward that disappeared and abandoned his members when soldiers allegedly came to his house in Abia state. Displaying how strong and fearless he has become, Deji said he was arrested nine times and imprisoned thrice under Buhari’s administration. Security operatives block pro-Sowore demonstrators in Abuja(Opens in a new browser tab) He took out time to educate Nnamdi Kanu, noting that respite all his tribulations he (Deji) is still living and criticizing Buhari and his administration in Nigeria. His words, “Some of the miscreants defending coward Nnamdi Kanu make me laugh. Small intimidation by Buhari, he compromised, collected money and ran away. If he’s man enough, he should come back. I have been arrested 9 times under Buhari; imprisoned thrice but still here. “You can’t be saying you want Biafra and you are running away from ordinary Buhari, come back. Come back and confront Buhari like many of us are doing here. Abi, you want to achieve Biafra on Facebook? ‪WE NO BE MATE. “Was the military not outside Keffi prison waiting to re-arrest me in December, 2018? Why didn’t I run away from Nigeria like a coward? Why didn’t I also compromise & collect dollars?”. Vanguard A human right activist, Adeyanju Deji, has described as ‘senseless’ the order given to the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, to attack President Muhammadu Buhari in Japan. August 25, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria police have released the former Head of New Media for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and Convener of pro-democracy and good governance group, Concerned Nigerians, Prince Deji Adeyanju and his co-detainee, Brian Jonah Dennis who were picked by the security operatives earlier this morning for staging a peaceful… April 21, 2017 In "News" The Nnamdi Kanu led Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and it's Directorate of States yesterday said there is no more space for tyranny and repressive government in Africa, saying that the alleged repressive and tyrannical government going on in Nigeria will fissile out in no distant time. April 22, 2017 In "News"