The Maye of Yoruba land and founder of Oduduwa University, Dr. Abdul-Rahaman Adegoke Adedoyin, has urged Yoruba elders and other stakeholders   to   sheath   their swords and “stop washing our dirty linen in the public”, over the appointment of Professor Adebanji Akintoye as new Yoruba Leader. Adedoyin made the appeal in a press statement against the backdrop of the controversy that greeted the emergence of Akintoye as the fourth elected Yoruba Leader. OWENA DAM: Ondo PDP faults Akeredolu over Agagu alleged payment(Opens in a new browser tab) The university don was appointed last week in Ibadan,Oyo State capital by a group known as Oodua Redemption Alliance, led by Mr. Victor Taiwo. Akintoye emerged the new Yoruba Leader after the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the late Pa Adekunle Ajasin and the late Senator Abraham Adesanya. Adedoyin said in the statement ,”All Yoruba need at this period in time is to think positively (Yoruba Ronu), come together, and forget all sorts of bickering, come against the common enemies both in the spirit and physical, for the betterment of our present and future”. Vanguard The proprietor of Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Dr Rahmon Adegoke Adedoyin, is a prince from Ile-Ife (Agbedegbede/Oshinkola) Akui Ruling House. His developmental strides, particularly in the cradle of Yoruba land, prompted the late Ooni of Ife, Oba Okunade Sijuwade, to honour him with the chieftaincy title of the… August 15, 2015 In "Interview" The proprietor of Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Dr Rahmon Adegoke Adedoyin, is a prince from Ile-Ife (Agbedegbede/Oshinkola) Akui Ruling House. His developmental strides, particularly in the cradle of Yoruba land, prompted the late Ooni of Ife, Oba Okunade Sijuwade, to honour him with the chieftaincy title of the… August 16, 2015 In "Interview" The controversial monarch, Oluwo of Iwo land in Osun state,Oba Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi was at its best last Saturday during the third memorial lecture organised to resonate the sweet memories of the legendary, late imperial majesty,Oba Okunade Sijuwade,the immediate past Ooni of Ife. August 4, 2018 In "News"