SENATOR Ike Ekweremadu has said that contrary to stories reported that he went for New yam festival in Germany, he was in the European country to negotiate foreign investment for Ndigbo. Speaking in Enugu, Friday, on arrival from Abuja, Ekweremadu stressed that he has forgive his attackers and asked every other person to forgive them. “I went for a very serious business. I am Ikeoha, a title in my community and I cannot go out of my community to celebrate New yam festival when it has not been celebrated in my place. Insecurity: I‘ll crush Banditry, kidnapping in southwest in four months – Gani Adams(Opens in a new browser tab) “It is those who don’t know me that talk about New yam festival. I went to pursue a common good for our people and I am happy I went and came back successfully. “When they attacked me, I wanted to retaliate. I told them that we are all from the same place and know one another strengths but on a second thought I retreated. “We will do all possible to help resolve problems of our people. I urge you to forgive those who attacked me. Breaking: (Live Update): Keyamo, Lai Mohammed, Rotimi Amaechi others ready for inauguration(Opens in a new browser tab) “We pray that such will not happen again. We are doing everything possible to ensure that everybody gets his own share in Nigeria. “Our philosophy in Enugu state is equity and we will continue to ensure that everybody gets his or her own share of equity.” President of Ohanaeze Youth Wing, Aurthur Obiora and members of his executive pleaded with Ekweremadu to parmanently forgive his attackers in Germany. Vanguard Nnamdi  Kanu, Leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, insisted, yesterday, that the attack on the former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg, Germany, was a ‘courageous act’ and ‘polite warning.’ August 19, 2019 In "Headlines" The Federal Government has condemned the attack on the former deputy senate president, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg Germany. August 18, 2019 In "News" Senator Shehu Sani, has said that Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, IPOB spanked the wrong Horse with the Wrong Whip on the wrong track has condemned the attack on the former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, in Nuremberg Germany. The immediate past Deputy President of the Senate, Enweremadu was physically… August 18, 2019 In "News"