Dear Bunmi, I lost my wife a few years ago in an unfortunate motor accident and had made up my mind to remarry. We were married for over 20 years and she was a good mother to our three boys. We are building a standard growing out of Nigeria for Africa — TruCSR boss(Opens in a new browser tab) Late last year, I was introduced to a divorced lady at a close friend’s birthday party and we hit things off right away. The love-making was good and I was already toying with the idea of proposing marriage. Dad is having an affair with my aunt(Opens in a new browser tab) Then, all of a sudden, her attitude changed. Thinking she wanted a re-assurance, I had a talk with her that she had my undivided love and I would do anything to make her happy. S3x trafficking of Igbo in Malaysia worries Anambra in Diaspora(Opens in a new browser tab) You can then imagine how shocked I was when she said all she wanted was the physical side of the relationship. That she had no wish to re-marry and that I had better start shopping for a wife-material. Imo declared most hostile, unsafe state for women, children(Opens in a new browser tab) What type of a woman behaves like this? It would have been understandable if she were a frivolous teenager, but she’s close to 40. What are our women turning into? Alaba, by e-mail. We’ve enough food, give nobody money for food importation, Buhari orders CBN(Opens in a new browser tab) Dear Alaba, Women often feel that they are the only ones that are used and dumped by men, but your experience shows that some women can be ruthless in the pursuit of what they want. Breast implants will not prevent sagging – says Obstetrician(Opens in a new browser tab) What to you was a big romance was obviously a casual fling to this woman. Now she’s telling you to get a life! Lasting relationships are built on friendship and shared ideas and dreams, not just love making. Without these feelings, you soon realise you’re saddled with someone you don’t really know after the love-making cools. Keep your dignity, try to wash this woman off your life and look for another woman out there eager to make a commitment. @vanguardngrnews Vanguard We were married for over 20 years and she was a good mother to our three boys. Late last year, I was introduced to a divorced lady at a close friend’s birthday party and we hit things off right away. The love-making was good and I was already toying with… July 25, 2018 In "Relationships" How easy it is for you to declare yourself ready to find a new partner when you’re still married to the woman you’ve cherished for more than 30 years? But then life is far from easy when Alzheimer’s strikes as young as 50—as it did Ernest’s wife, Solape. Two years… July 13, 2019 In "News" “At what point does a man decide to risk it all, his marriage, children and the love and respect of all those who depend on him, to embark on a mission that may turn his world upside down? August 3, 2019 In "Relationships"