The Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Yola on Thursday dismissed the suit challenging the emergence of Cliff Abbo as the senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial District. The suit was filed by Sen. Binta Masi of All Progressives Congress (APC) who lost the seat to Abbo during the general election. Delivering judgment, the Chairman of the Tribunal, Justice Sulaiman Akanbi, said that the petitioner could not provide any credible evidence to show that the election of Abbo was marred by over voting and other irregularities as alleged. “All said and done, the petitioner failed to prove his petition with convincing evidence. We consequently dismissed this petition,’’ the judge ruled. Reacting, counsel to Massi, Mr Yakubu Bello, said that his client would appeal the judgment. READ ALSO: Nicholas Mutu, Australia’s longest serving parliamentarian On his part, Sen. Abbo said that he was excited by the victory and urged Massi to accept the outcome in good faith. Abbo said that the case had been one of the major things distracting him and that he would now have time to work for his people. “My people should be expecting wonders. I am not a mistake and I will make them proud,” Abbo said. The election tribunal had also dismissed the case filed by Sen. Ahmad Mo-Allahyidi of APC challenging the victory of Sen. Binos Yaroe for the seat of Adamawa South Senatorial District. Similarly, the tribunal dismissed the case filed by Mrs Ovaldi Madayi of APC against the victory of Rep. Laori Kwamoti of PDP for Numan/Demsa/Lamurde Federal Constituency. Als0 dismissed was that of Malam Mucthar Kabiru of PDP challenging the victory of Rep. Abdulrazak Namdas of APC for Ganye/Toungo/Jada/Mayo-Belwa Federal Constituency.(NAN) VANGUARD THE Anambra State election petition tribunal sitting in Awka has upheld the victory of the Senator representing Anambra Central Senatorial District, Chief Victor Umeh in the January 13 Senatorial re-run election in the zone July 28, 2018 In "News" The National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Kaduna on Wednesday dismissed the petition of Sen. Shehu Sani of Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) for lack of merit. August 22, 2019 In "News" The Oyo State Governorship Election Petition Tribunal in Ibadan on Tuesday upheld the victory of Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State and dismissed the petition of Sen. Rashidi Ladoja of Accord Party. Ladoja had filed a petition challenging the declaration of Ajimobi of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the… October 27, 2015 In "News"