Operatives of the Economic Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ilorin Zonal Office have arrested Joseph Oyediran, one of the internet fraudsters wanted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). This is part of an international crackdown on a syndicate of cyber criminals. EFCC’s spokesman Mr Wilson Uwujaren in a statement in Abuja on Friday quoted the Zonal Head of the commission Mr Isyaku Sharu as disclosing this when he gave an update on the EFCC/FBI collaboration in the fight against internet fraud and cybercrime. He said: “Three weeks ago, the U.S. authority had written to us for assistance in tracking and possible arrest and prosecution of two most wanted FBI suspects in Nigeria. “Investigation conducted by the EFCC revealed that Oyediran had benefited about N60 million from the loot via western union transfers.” Also read: 80 Nigerians indicted for fraud in US: Social media peeved as reactions flood in He said that the acting EFCC Chairman, Mr Ibrahim Magu had expressed resolve to ensure that the anti-graft agency effectively coordinated the Nigerian end of the investigation with the FBI. He said that within seven months of its operations in Ilorin, the EFCC had revved up efforts to rid the country of cybercrime resulting in the arrest of more than 50 persons involved in internet fraud. “We have also secured the conviction of 25 of them, recovered exotic cars from them, which were proceeds of their illegal activities,” he said. Vanguard Efforts by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC to track down some Nigerians declared wanted by Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, for fraud in the United State of America is beginning to yield results with the arrest of one of the suspects, Oyediran Joseph in Ilorin, Kwara State. August 31, 2019 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has arrested a 36-year-old in Ilorin for alleged N60 million fraud. August 30, 2019 In "News" Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Port Harcourt Zonal Office have arrested two suspected internet fraudsters linked to the ongoing collaborative investigations between the EFCC and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI. "The suspects were separately arrested in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and Owerri, Imo State. "One… August 31, 2019 In "News"