The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, says  the collaboration between the Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, FBI, has led to the recovery of the sums of $314,000 and about N373 million from perpetrators of computer-related fraud. Magu said while the sum of $314,000 had been recovered, the sum of N373m had been traced to various commercial banks by the Lagos Zonal office of the Commission. He also disclosed that the recent joint operations coordinated by the Commission had yielded 28 arrests, adding that 14 suspects had been charged and convicted. The EFCC Chairman further stated that “nine of the suspects are currently undergoing trial, while five are still under investigations. “Over 80 cases are still under investigation from the EFCC-FBI joint operations.” Breaking: Abba Kyari didn’t influence Oyo-Ita’s probe over N3b scam – EFCC(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking through Mohammed Rabo, Lagos Zonal Head of the EFCC at a media briefing in Lagos on Tuesday, August 27, 2019, Magu added that  the Lagos zone of the Commission, prior to the collaborative efforts with the FBI, had independently launched a sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds. He said:  “From 2018 to date, the EFCC had launched a sustained operation on perpetrators of various computer-related frauds, which resulted in over 200 arrests, 130 convictions and recovery of a large number of exotic cars and properties suspected to have been acquired through the proceeds of crime. “We had independently launched intensive investigative actions against the infamous Yahoo yahoo boys culminating in various strategic raids and onslaught on their hideouts. “Our efforts in this regard have recorded tremendous successes leading to a number of arrests, prosecutions and convictions. “ Magu also called on the media to continue to lend its voice to the fight against corruption and economic and financial crimes, saying that “no one has the monopoly of knowledge of how the fight should be fought and won. Okorocha: EFCC seals properties linked to former Imo governor(Opens in a new browser tab) “All the critical stakeholders, particularly the media, must continue to collaborate and cooperate with us to make the fight a success. “I urge you to continue to help us sensitize, mobilize and educate all the critical stakeholders to continue to support the fight against economic and financial crimes.  We must collectively strive to achieve the Nigeria of our dream. “It is very critical for you to understand that you owe the youth that social responsibility of awakening their consciousness to the importance of a noble life devoid of crimes.” He also reiterated that the Commission would leave no stone unturned towards stamping out corruption and economic and financial crimes from our society. Vanguard Alarmed by the report by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation indicting 77 Nigerians over Business Email Compromise and wire fraud, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission said last night that it had placed all its officers and men nationwide to track the suspects. August 25, 2019 In "News" The Senate has again, Wednesday, rejected Ibrahim Magu as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission’s boss. March 15, 2017 In "News" austria (VIENNA) —Nigeria has successfully traced and recovered $2.9 billion or N738.9 billion from looters between May 2015 and October 2017, the Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, has said. November 9, 2017 In "News"