… Says freedom over  The Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Ibahim Pantami has charged all heads of parastatals under his ministry to perform or get sacked. Pantami gave the directive on Thursday when the Director of the National Information and Technology Development Agency, NITDA, Kashifu Abdallah Inuwa led the management  team of the agency  on a visit in Abuja. Minimum wage: NECA calls for compromise The told  the NITDA DG and his management team that every parastatals under his watch  must brace up for the challenges ahead, insisting that the assessment of their performance will no longer be business as usual, as the administration will be applying Key Performance Indicator, KPI  on  monthly  basis to ascertain the performance of every  parastatal under the ministry. ‘‘Our responsibility in the ministry is very  well known. Our mandate is to represent the President and do all on his behalf.  My freedom is over and I can’t travel now without informing the president. I feel unconformable having too much security around me. ‘‘After the first year, the President will use KPI to determine if we will be retained, if you fail to deliver after one year, you will be sacked.  For this reason, we will come up with KPI for all the agencies. We will put all the heads of parastatals under pressure because the President has put us under pressure and this will be reported on monthly basis. ‘‘From now henceforth, every action plan other than policy or law must be approved by the ministry. I encourage you to sit up properly. We are not here to just look at you but to take bullets on your behalf. ‘‘Be passionate about the work you do, be hard working and keep improving in uprightness,’’ Pantami charged. Earlier in his remarks, the Director General of NITDA  told the minister that they were in his office to express their solidarity for his appointment and expressed their readiness to work with him in order to realize the mandate of the ministry.  The Minister of Communication, Dr. Isah Pantami, on Wednesday charged the members of staff of the ministry to work hard, take their duties seriously and shun tribalism. August 21, 2019 In "News" Persons Living with Disabilities, PLWD, have expressed disappointment in the ministerial list of President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that it completely discriminated and excluded them in the nominations. July 27, 2019 In "News" The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) says it is collaborating with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to ensure that Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) comply with the clearance of Information Technology projects procurement November 27, 2017 In "News"