Igbo living in Germany has on Monday apologized to the former deputy senate president, Dr. Ike Ekweremadu, over the attack on him by the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, living in Germany. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Uche Anichukwu, Special Assistant to Ekweremadu on Media, Igbo in Germany frowned at the attack, describing it as ‘senseless’. Ayiri to E.K. Clark on Edo crisis: You cannot undermine NASS powers(Opens in a new browser tab) Anichukwu who quoted the group according to Punch said, “We, Ndi-Igbo Germany, the umbrella/apex union of all Igbo unions operating in the Federal Republic of Germany are shocked and dismayed by the unprovoked, unwarranted and senseless attack unleashed on Senator Ike Ekweremadu in Nuremberg, Germany. “Ndi-Igbo Germany, wish to offer our unequivocal apology to our special guest of honour, Senator Ike Ekweremadu – former Deputy Senate President – for the unfortunate treatment misdirected at him by members of Indigenous Peoples Of Biafra in Germany during the occasion of our second Annual Igbo Cultural Festival and Convention 2019. “It must be emphasised that Senator Dr. Ike Ekweremadu had nothing personal to gain in attending our cultural day. Rather the Igbo residents here in Germany lost an opportunity to tap into his reservoir of knowledge. “No words can describe our shock, our consternation, and our sadness at this inexcusable, shameful and senseless attack. We apologise from the depths of our hearts that you had to experience such a horrible thing here in our midst. This is not how we are here. Please do not hold this incident against the 99 per cent law-abiding Umu-Igbo in Germany. “Our apologies go to Ohanaeze Ndi Igbo and to all well-meaning Igbo-Diasporan groups and associations both at home and abroad for this disgrace. “We sincerely apologize to the National Assembly and indeed to our entire country for such an unwarranted assault on Senator Ike Ekweremadu by the IPOB members in Germany. “Let this event be a rallying call to all Umu Igbo at home and worldwide to always seek unity rather than primitively turning against ourselves in senseless violence which will make neutral and friendly global nations turn away from us. Locational franchise and the Igbo question in Lagos (2)(Opens in a new browser tab) “Ndi-Igbo Germany (N.I.G) condemns in strongest terms this action by the members of IPOB in Germany against Senator Ike Ikweremadu. Ndi-Igbo Germany distances herself from any group that encourages violence, directly or indirectly. “It is not acceptable that an Igbo man or woman would come to the occasion of an ancient Igbo traditional event like Iri-ji and not only cause commotion, but also physically attack an invited guest, a fellow Igbo brother from home and a senior Igbo elder statesman in the person of Senator Dr. Ike Ekweremadu. This is an abomination in Igbo land. And in a foreign land! Is this what we have come to in our united struggle, Ndi Igbo? A house divided against itself cannot stand. “This single action will cost IPOB in Germany more than 70 per cent of  her hitherto sympathisers. What IPOB Germany thought in their inept, diminutive, and megalomaniac mindset as a humiliation of Senator Ekweremadu is, in reality, a humiliation of the Igbo race in a foreign land” Vanguard