The Indigenous People of Biafra has called on all its member across the globe to attack Ebonyi, Enugu, Abia and Anambra state governors if they are seen. Mr Emma Powerful, IPOB spokesperson, said the South-East governors and some Igbo leaders had been marked for attack if they are seen in any of the 100 countries IPOB members reside. He said “Today (Saturday), the Nuremberg IPOB family in Germany, in keeping with the long-standing directive from our leader to hound all instigators of the Operation Python Dance, is glad to report that Ike Ekweremadu was confronted and duly hounded out of a so-called New Yam Festival event in Germany. “Despite repeated warnings to the organisers of this jamboree that Enugu, Ebonyi and other parts of ‘Biafraland’ is under siege by the Fulani caliphate and their collaborators within, they went ahead to invite a known traitor, co-conspirator and one of those who worked with Igbo governors to proscribe and tag IPOB a terror organisation while they never raised any voice against the murderous Fulani herdsmen. IPOB’s attack on Ekweremadu shamefully pathetic – FG “This should serve as a warning to Nnia Nwodo, Dave Umahi, Okezie Ikpeazu, Willie Obiano and others that any day we find them in a public event abroad, they will be humiliated. IPOB is strategically located in over 100 countries around the world. Anywhere we find them, they will be dealt with.” Vanguard The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on Wednesday, had alleged that all the antagonistic and clandestine actities of the Ebony State Governor, Chief Dave Umeahi, against it, are aimed at his selfish ambition of becoming Vice President of Nigeria in 2023. IPOB also alleged that Umeahi is a mole in People Democratic Party, PDP, working for APC, and urged him to be bold enough now his unwarranted attacks against IPOB is clear and his second term seat secured, to declare for his secret party, APC. IPOB in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said “Governor, Umahi, purported ban of IPOB activities in Ebony State is exercise in futility, as the pronouncement became dead on arrival following IPOB’s strong base in the state.” The Biafra agitating group said that “Governor Umahi’s purported ban of IPOB activities in Ebonyi State was not the first time he made pronouncements that were not obeyed by Ebonyians, as he has in the past issued a Fatwa against our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and boasted that IPOB rally would never hold in Ebonyi State, but it held.” “Umahi had boasted to his fellow IPOB antagonist that our leader will be shot at sight if he dares enter Ebonyi State, but Kanu entered the state like a President of a country and Ebonyi Governor and his Cotravlers went on hiding because of the mammoth crowd that followed him on streets of Abakaliki, the governors base.” “May we therefore dutifully refer Governor Umahi and his Fulani handlers to the video of our leader smashing through six heavily fortified military roadblocks designed to stop Mazi Kanu from entering Abakiliki. “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu not only entered Abakaliki, he shut it down for a whole day. Even workers in Umahi’s office abandoned their work to  catch a glimpse of him, our leader.” “We are not in any doubt about the deep involvement of Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State in the ongoing clandestine Fulanisation agenda with, RUGA settlement in the East South and Operation Python Dance in 2017 and 2018, we are however, not dispelled by the inconsequential hogwash of a statement emanating from his office to the effect that IPOB activities has been banned in Ebonyi State. “We are aware, however, that Umahi’s desperate attempt to turn our beloved Ebonyi State into another vassal state of the Fulani emirate, is dead on arrival because IPOB is on the ground and will never allow it to work as he planned. “If his alliance in wonderland dream of becoming Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s Vice presidential candidate in 2023 is his motivation for coming out against IPOB at this critical moment in our history, then he is not only misguided but deluded and has failed woefully because he will be disappointed like his predecessor who betrayed Biafrans.” IPOB said “the purported ban of its activities in State Ebonyi is not the first time the Governor has sought to impress his Fulani friends by making grand declarations and mouthing gibberish against IPOB, Ashe did same in 2017 and boasted that IPOB rally would never hold in Ebonyi State, but we marched triumphantly in the state.” Describing alleged incessant harassment and constant threats against it from Umahi as childish and undignified, IPOB, alleged that “the governor wants  to impress his Fulani herdsmen friend he thinks gives political position in Nigeria.” “However, Dave Umahi should ask himself this question, how many Fulani governors have come out against Fulani terror herdsmen or Boko Haram? “Why is he and his fellow Igbo governors making jest of themselves in their myopic  competition of who will be the best Fulani slave from the East that will clinch non existing position, by attacking IPOB. “Using the gestapo-DSS and Fulani military to be hunting unarmed IPOB family members at night in Ebonyi state is beneath contempt. No Fulani or Yoruba politician would be that naive as to publicly fight a movement seeking to protect the interest of their people. “We the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and it’s leadership worldwide consider it imperative to issue a straight warning to Governor Umahi and his likes, that if any IPOB family member goes missing, he and his immediate family will bear the brunt of our anger. “He should pray that nothing happens to any Biafran in Ebonyi State or else we will set an ugly example with him. “What we IPOB did in Ebonyi State is to protest against RUGA not the government of Dave Umahi, so we are at a loss on his purported clapdown on IPOB that merely carried out the wish of the people. “Nearly a month now Umahi has renewed his constant threats of attack on IPOB and destruction of properties belonging to our  leaders in Ebonyi State, due to our resolve to stop the implimentation of Fulani Ruga Settlement in Ebonyi State and Biafra land in general. “Our priests, fathers, mothers including children, protested in Abakiliki against Fulani Ruga settlement two weeks ago and we remain adamant that we do not want Fulani Ruga settlement anywhere in Ebonyi State. “Our attention has equally been drawn to the unprovoked attacks and destruction of properties belonging to IPOB family members in Ebonyi State especially the recent destruction of Iyimagu the host community of Pinnacle of Grace Assembly Church in Ebonyi State.” IPOB, said “since the resoundingly successful outcome of our peaceful protest and rally in Abakiliki against Fulani Ruga settlement in Ebonyi state, Governor Umahi and his government has became paranoid, no doubt acting on the instruction of his Fulani handlers over his deal with those who rigged him into power in February this year.” “We are equally on the know that Igbo governors have secretly donated numerous lands in their respective states for RUGA which IPOB will never allow regardless of how many of us die in the process of defending our land. “We therefore warn that any traditional ruler, community leader or President General, PG, who involves him or herself with this Fulani inspired dastardly act against IPOB will pay dearly for it. The world will bear us witness that we have warned you. “If the combined might of the presidency, Nigerian military, biased media, police, judiciary, treachery from Ohaneze Ndigbo and South East Governors could not stop IPOB, who is the dimunitive fraudster and Miyetti Allah errand boy to think he can? “We have said it and are saying it again, and we are now drumming it into the ears of all the Fulani slaves in the South East to hear and understand that as long as IPOB exists, there will be no RUGA settlement anywhere on Biafran soil.”