A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, today, discharged and acquitted Dr. Emmanuel Dudafa,  Senior Special Assistant to former President Goodluck Jonathan, who was charged for conspiracy, forgery and laundering of the sum of N1.6 billion. The charge was brought against him and a banker Mr Iwejuo Joseph by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. Also discharged and acquitted alongside Dr. Dudafa, on the alleged offences, is a banker, Iwejuo Joseph. At the delivering of the judgment today, the EFCC was represented by Rotimi Oyedepo, while  Dudafa was represented by Kolawole Salami and Ademola Adefolaju, who stood for Mr. Gboyega Oyewole, SAN, while the banker was represented by Mr Ige Asemudara. READ ALSO: Corruption charges: Court frees former senate president In discharging the accused of the 22 counts charge, Justice Mohammed Idris held that the prosecution failed to prove its case against the two men. The judge also said the prosecution was unable to link Dudafa and Iwejuo to the said crimes. The judge while reviewing the documentary and oral evidence of the parties,  said that the prosecution case collapsed because it failed or refused to call vital witnesses that would have helped their case. VANGUARD SENIOR Special Assistant on Domestic Affairs to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Waripamo Owei-Emmanuel Dudafa and others being tried over an alleged N5.1 billion fraud, yesterday, asked a Federal High Court, sitting in Lagos, to discharge and acquit them, saying they have no case to answer. April 27, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights" LAGOS — Former Senior Special Assistant on Domestic Affairs to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Dr. Waripamo-Owei Dudafa, who is facing 23-count charge of conspiracy to conceal proceeds of crime amounting to N1.6 billion, yesterday, told a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, that he had no dealings with  the Office… September 5, 2018 In "News" Former Senior Special Assistant on Domestic Affairs to ex- President Goodluck Jonathan, Waripamo-Owei Emmanuel Dudafa and a bank official, Iwejuo Joseph Nna (aka. Taiwo A. Ebenezer and Olugbenga Isaiah) were today Wednesday docked by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC before Justice M.B. Idris of the Federal High Court… June 15, 2016 In "News"