Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and the Honorable Minster of Works and Housing Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, will be at the Lagos State University, LASU Ojo for the institution’s maiden research fair come Tuesday,September 3rd, According to Prof. Olumuyiwa Odusanya,Director, Research & Innovation, the event set to hold at the Aderemi Makanjuola Lecture Theatre, Main Campus, will be an exhibition/celebration of academic excellence. He explained that, “The Fair will afford the University opportunity to show how its research activities are advancing knowledge and making impact in the larger society. The theme of the Fair is Driving National Development through Research and Innovation. Fashola, Sanwo-Olu task youth on politics, commerce for rapid national development(Opens in a new browser tab) “While the Chairman of the Research Fair is the Governor of Lagos State and Visitor to the University, His Excellency Mr. Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu, the Keynote address will be delivered by a former Governor of Lagos State and Honorable Minster of Works and Housing Mr. Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN. “Also, several academic giants are expected at the LASU Research Fair. The Fair has attracted reputable scholars from within LASU and other universities in Nigeria. As LASU expects a large turn-out and welcomes all to the Fair.”he said. Vanguard On Saturday Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, held consultations with Lagos State Governor Akinwumi Ambode; Minister of Power, Works & Infrastructures, Babatunde Raji Fashola; APC Gubernatorial Candidate for Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-olu and others. March 3, 2019 In "News" TO brighten his prospects, a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress, APC, in Lagos State Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has met with the camp of Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola and the state factional chairman of the party, Mr. Fuad Oki. September 25, 2018 In "News" ·53 parties adopt Buhari, Sanwo-Olu ahead of APC rally in Lagos The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is the “most competent” to govern the state among the candidates jostling for the Lagos top seat, the Minister of Works, Power and Housing,… February 8, 2019 In "News"