Former Lagos Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Adeniji Kazeem, SAN has been re-appointed as the National Legal Adviser of the Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria. The group, in a letter signed by its National Secretary, Alhaji Iskeel Ola Yusuf, said his reappointment was based on his long-standing commitment and outstanding performance in the society before he proceeded to take up appointment as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice from October 2015 to May 2019. The letter reads: In view of your long-standing commitment and outstanding performance in all strata of the Society, particularly as the former National Legal Adviser of the Society before you proceeded on your sabbatical leave to serve the State, National President, Aare Dr. Rafiu Ademola Sanni on behalf of the National Executive Committee of the Society has approved your re-appointment as the National Legal Adviser. Fayemi names Finance Commissioner, Attorney General “While we congratulate you, it is hoped that you will continue to bring to bear, your wealth of experience in this role”. Kazeem holds a 2nd class upper degree in law from the University of Lagos. He also holds a Master’s of Law degree in Information Technology and Telecommunications Law from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow. He started his professional career as a Consultant with the international consulting and accounting firm, Arthur Andersen (now KPMG Professional Services) as a staff of the Tax and Regulatory services division of the firm. After five years with the firm, he voluntarily resigned in 1996 and established the law firm of Adeniji Kazeem & Co. Kazeem, who boasts of 27 years of successful law practice, was last year conferred with rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN. In its bid to ensure justice for all and sundry, the Lagos State Government on Thursday inaugurated a nine-member Advisory Council on Prerogative of Mercy. June 30, 2016 In "News" After 27 years of successful law practice, the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Lagos State, Adeniji Kazeem, was formerly conferred with rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria, SAN, last month. October 4, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights" Lagos state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, Monday, picked the nomination form to contest for a second term under the All Progressives Congress. APC, in Abuja. September 10, 2018 In "Photos"