A former Houston police officer has been charged with felony murder in connection with a deadly January drug raid that killed a couple and injured several officers, prosecutors announced Friday. The January 28 raid came under scrutiny after police alleged one of the officers who was shot, Gerald Goines, lied in order to obtain a search warrant. Killed in the shooting were 58-year-old Rhogena Nicholas and 59-year-old Dennis Tuttle. Family and friends of Tuttle and Nicholas have continuously dismissed allegations the couple sold drugs. Police found small amounts of marijuana and cocaine in the home but no heroin, AP News reported. The Harris County District Attorney’s Office announced the charges against Goines at a press conference Friday. Another officer was charged with tampering with a government record. ALSO READ: You need hard work, not prayer alone to excel ―Tinubu, Fashola counsel Sanwo-Olu, cabinet members Both were expected to surrender later Friday afternoon, District Attorney Kim Ogg said. Initially, Houston police maintained that after officers entered the home, Rhogena Nicholas tried to take away a shotgun from an officer and was fatally shot by officers who saw what was happening. But an independent review by the family of Rhogena Nicholas earlier this year cast doubt on that portrayal. Goines’ attorney previously said he has done nothing wrong. The Nigerian Mission in South Africa announced on Friday that police officers implicated in the alleged murder of a Nigerian, Ibrahim Badmus, would be charged to court soon. July 20, 2018 In "Crime Alert" London Metropolitan police on Friday charged a 47-year-old man, arrested after driving a van into Muslims near a mosque in north London on June 19, with terrorism-related murder and attempted murder. June 23, 2017 In "News" Greece's ambassador to Brazil was murdered in a plot hatched by his Brazilian wife and her police officer lover, who confessed to the crime, officials said Friday. December 31, 2016 In "News"