Lagos—The Securities and Exchange Commission,  Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA has commenced move to develop a standardised form that would aid investors to get access to capital market data and information to facilitate their investment decisions in the country. The Acting Director-General, SEC, Mary Uduk hinted this at the sideline during a briefing at the end of the Second Quarter Capital Market Committee Meeting, CMC in Lagos weekend. She said: “The CMC’s Identity Management Committee has given updates of its meeting with the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) on the implications of the Nigerian Data Protection Regulation on capital market operations. There are plans, the committee announced, “to develop a standardized data form, which seeks to consolidate registration and access to processes in the capital market by investors.” She announced that considerable progress had been made in the implementation of its consolidation of multiple shareholder accounts and electronic Dividend Mandate Management System (e-DMMS) and so far about 3.4 billion shares had been consolidated. Also read: Ebola virus spreads to new areas in Eastern DRC, WHO Reports She said: “Both measures were introduced as part of checking the growth and possibly eliminating the unclaimed dividend menace in the nation’s capital market. ”“The commission was also mandated by CMC to urge the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to include e-DMMS charges in its Guideline for Bank Charges.” This, she explained, is because “the CBN has published charges for the banks; this means that any transactions carried out by any bank, there is an established charge. “The e-dividend charge is not part of the charges from the CBN and so because of that investors are having issues with banks where for instance, they are charged for some transactions that are not listed as bank charges which they do not know. They complained to us and so we decided that we will engage CBN to actually make this part of their charges and so any e-dividend carried out will be charged by the CBN.” Vanguard The Securities and Exchange Information Technology Development Agency , NITDA have commenced move to develop a standardised form that would aid investors to get access to capital market data and information to facilitate their investment decisions in the country. August 25, 2019 In "Business" While Nigeria’s achievements in the Information and Communications Technology, ICT, industry have become ready subjects of discussions at global forums, the National Information Technology Development Agency, NITDA, has given indication of a new focus to further raise the tempo of activities aimed at taking the country’s ICT industry to greater… September 24, 2014 In "Technology" Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) has decried regulatory infractions by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) which border somewhat on communications matters within the regulatory purview of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). In a letter to NCC, signed by Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, chairman, ALTON, the association… August 14, 2019 In "News"