With the report that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, raided the home of the former governor of Lagos state, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, the commission has on Tuesday denied the report, noting that what it did was in accordance with its mandate and rule of law. Recall that officers of the commission had on Tuesday morning stormed and raided the Lagos residence of Ambode. Reacting, Tony Orilade the spokesman of the commission averred that Ambode’s administration like other former governors is under investigation and what the commission did today was instructive. GENERAL ELECTIONS: APC will win within three hours of voting – Akpabio(Opens in a new browser tab) His words,‘’what it is doing now with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law’’. ‘’We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors is under investigation, since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. ‘’The commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence. ‘’As a tradition, the commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court.’’ Below is the commission’s full state:   We Did Not Raid Ex-Gov. Ambode’s Residence-EFCC . . The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC has since early hours of today, been inundated with calls that operatives of the Commission raided the residence of the former governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode. . . We need to state for the records that the EFCC did not raid Ambode’s house. It is instructive that his administration, like other former governors is under investigation, since they no longer constitutionally enjoy immunity against prosecution. . . The Commission hereby states with high sense of responsibility that the operatives did not raid Ambode’s residence. . . Whatever the Commission is presently doing with regards to the investigation is in line with its mandate and the rule of law. . . We wish to inform the social media to be circumspect in the reportage of any news with regards to investigation activities of the Commission. . . As a tradition, the Commission does not carry out investigation on the pages of the newspapers or through the media. Our operations are always covert until at a time when we file charges in court. . . Therefore, the attempt to cast the Commission in a bad light is unacceptable as the EFCC will never engage in illegal act. We remain committed to the war against corruption. . . #TruthBeTold #CommittedToTheFight #EFCC #TheFightAgainstCorruption #FightingForYou A post shared by  EFCC Nigeria (@officialefcc) on Aug 20, 2019 at 3:36am PDT Vanguard