The Chief Of Staff, CoS, to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Tayo Ayinde has expressed determination to make the current administration of his principal work by bringing to bear his wealth of experience. Recall that Sanwo-Olu, last Tuesday, inaugurated members of his Executive Council which subsequently, dissolved into a four day retreat to chart the way forward for Lagos and residents. Ayinde, whose field of politics has offered him the needed space to serve humanity had a 16-year stint as a security officer before he voluntarily bowed out in 2009. The 55-year-old Ayinde, who joined the State Security Service, SSS, now the Department of State Services, DSS, in 1993 after working briefly as Account Officer in the TELL Magazine, served as Head of the Accounts Department of the Shangisha Office of the Security Service between 1993 and 1999. He was later deployed to Lagos House where he served as Chief Security Detail to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Governor of Lagos State at the time. After retiring from service in 2009, he later worked closely with the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart before the run-up to the last governorship election in the Centre of Excellence offered the opportunity to play politics in his locality. His close association and experience working with the APC chieftain brought the best out of the security officer-turned politician in 2018, when he was named as the Director-General of the Independent Campaign Group for the Mr. Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat’s governorship campaign team. After his candidates won the March 9 governorship election, Ayinde got another responsibility as the Chairman of the inauguration committee. His announcement as Chief of Staff to Governor Sanwo-Olu was described in many quarters, especially his Ikeja political constituency, as an appointment “well-deserved.” Ayinde, born on August 24, 1964, in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, attended St Peters’ Anglican Primary School, Alausa, Ikeja where he obtained his First School Leaving Certificate before proceeding to OguduGrammar School, Ojota, Lagos where he sat and obtained his West African School Certificate. He gained admission into Federal Polytechnic, Anambra and was awarded the Ordinary National Diploma (OND) in Banking and later the Higher National Diploma (HND) in Accountancy. While in the SSS, Ayinde distinguished himself as a dedicated, loyal, courageous and trustworthy officer, before he quit to pursue a private life in 2009. Since his return in June to Alausa Government House as the CoS to the Lagos Governor, Ayinde, who holds a Master’s Degree (MBA) in Financial Management from the Lagos State University, has been a jolly good fellow. He also attended the University of Toronto, Rotman School of Management, where he underwent a course of study in Strategic Thinking Approach. Ayinde later attended the University of Cambridge, Judge Business School for a Course of Study in Business Model Innovation. Not done yet, he went further to study Strategic Financial Analysis for Business Evaluation at Harvard Business School, Boston, USA. All these were in addition to his professional training on VIP protection and anti-terrorism in the best Institutions in Israel and the UK. A committed supporter of universal human values and an advocate of support for the less privileged, Ayinde has touched many lives for the better. He is a devout Christian, and happily married and blessed with children. Speaking with newsmen at the end of a three day executive retreat, Saturday, which coincided with his birthday, Ayinde said, “We had a successful deliberation which focused on moving the state forward. “I want to assure Lagosians that the team is ready to unlock the potentials of Lagos for its prosperity. I will personally, bring my knowledge and experience into play to make sure that the Sanwo-Olu’s administration work for the benefit of all.” The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu and the Minister for Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, both former Governors of the state, also graced the occasion to give a pep talk to participants. Other speakers at the Day 3 session included the Director General of the Budget Office, Mr. Ben Akabueze who took the participants through on the structure of the State’s budget. The retreat was held at the instance of the Lagos State Government to enable cabinet members and Permanent Secretaries key into the policy thrust of the Governor Sanwo-Olu administration. Vanguard Lagos State Governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who will be sworn-in as the 16h governor of the state has appointed Me Tayo Ayinde as his Chief of Staff. May 29, 2019 In "News" Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State, on Friday, appointed Mr. Tayo Ayinde as his Chief of Staff, and Mr. Gboyega Soyannwo as Deputy Chief of Staff. May 31, 2019 In "News" Lagos State Governor-elect, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday, unveiled an inauguration committee that will usher in his administration on May 29th, 2019. April 19, 2019 In "News"