No fewer than 25 passengers including four children on Sunday narrowly escaped death in two separate auto crashes that occurred in Awka and Onitsha, Anambra. Mr Ayodele Kumapayi,  State Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), who confirmed the incidents, told newsmen that eight persons, however, sustained injuries. Kumapayi said the Onitsha accident involved two vehicles, a Toyota Lexus car with registration number ABH 178 RC and Toyota Corolla car with registration number FST 555 AJ. According to him, seven persons including four children were involved in the Onitsha accident, which occurred on the Niger Bridge at about 1:40 p.m. “The Lexus car lost control after trying to overtake a trailer, spun and hit the second vehicle on the Niger Bridge, but thankfully, no life was lost,” he said. He added that personnel of the corps responded to the distress call within eight minutes and were able to control traffic on the bridge. The official said the Awka auto crash was reported at 12:01 p.m. same day at Kwata junction along Awka – Onitsha expressway. According to him, the lone accident involving 18 passengers in a Toyota black bus with registration number JJT 304 XG was caused by speeding. He explained that the commercial bus heading to Awka from Onitsha lost control and rammed into the drainage along the expressway,  resulting in multiple serious injuries by eight passengers in the vehicle. Kumapayi, who advised motorists against speeding, said all affected vehicles had been removed from the scene of the accident to ensure the free flow of traffic. Vanguard EVERY four hours, no fewer than two lives are lost on Nigerian roads. And every year, about 20,000 of the 11.654 million vehicles in the country are involved in accidents, Sunday Vanguard’s investigations and analysis of data released by the National Bureau of Statistics, NBS, and the Federal Road Safety… September 9, 2018 In "Metro" Former Anambra factional Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Egwuoyibo Okoye, on Friday night escaped death following a fatal road crash. February 1, 2014 In "News" The Police have confirmed the death of eight persons, seven of which are of the same family, who died on Sunday in a road accident. June 10, 2018 In "News"