As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Nigeria, Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria (SHIN) has donated electrical equipment, clothing and other relief materials to the victims of herdsmen and Boko Haram’s attacks in Jos, Plateau State. SHI’s new gesture is coming less than one year after the Korean shipbuilding giant funded the cost of eye surgery for 102 Nigerian patients with cataracts. These patients who were at the risk of blindness successfully recovered their eyesight with Vision Care, an organisation under the World Health Organisation (WHO). Since 2015, Samsung has worked with Vision Care in the annual Eye Camp to give free cataract surgeries to individuals who cannot afford the treatment. In this latest gesture, SHIN said in a statement that a missionary group from Korea constructed school in Jos, for the villagers in Rhizha, where four missionaries are teaching about 560 children and also providing counselling to victims, mostly women, suffering from the trauma sustained from Boko Haram attacks. As part of its humanitarian assistance, SHIN said it has continually made donations to the missionary group over a number of years and lent a helping hand to the community and its people. The statement added that the villagers have suffered from attacks by herdsmen with many losing their family members and livelihoods to these acts of violence. Total, SHI resolve dispute over $3.3 bn Egina FPSO project However, these acts of violence have not deterred the missionary from creating this initiative to assist the community. The missionary group from Korea has been able to construct a church and a school, while Samsung have donated electrical goods, which including Televisions which will be used in the school by the children. Samsung has also donated other electrical items for the benefits of the entire community. Items of clothing were also delivered to the villagers.
In a letter of appreciation addressed to SHIN, a member of the Korean missionary, Jae Seo said: “I have been working in Nigeria since 1991 as a Korean missionary”. “Among our works here in Northern Nigeria, one of our joys is that we see a big progress of the children at our school. Presently we have 88 students and soon in September 25 more students will join us.“Our school is still at the baby-stage since it is only three years old. We have hardly any electronic equipment. “Thank you for your donation of 10 laptop computers, 10 TVs and 10 refrigerators along with 100 pieces of T-shirts and caps. All of us at EMS Rija Academy say ‘Thank you so much for your generous donations.” According to the statement by SHIN, the community was also extremely pleased with the donations and SHIN’s support. “Samsung has actively been participating and involving in CSR activities not just in Nigeria, but on a global scale, in more than 70 countries. It is our belief and philosophy that we have the responsibility to contribute to society as one of the largest corporations in the world.” “Apart from providing succor to these victims of violence, Samsung’s social contributions in Nigeria also include the establishment of a world-class Welding Qualification Centre in Lagos. This centre has trained 530 young Nigerians and they have received international certifications which they can use for many job opportunities. “Due to the success of the programme, structures have been put in place to ensure the centre is lively and will keep providing high-end technological transfer to Nigerian youths,” SHIN explained in the statement. WITH the assistance of Samsung Heavy Industries of Nigeria, SHIN, 102 Nigerian patients with cataracts and at risk of blindness have successfully recovered their eyesight with Vision Care, an affiliate of the World Health Organisation, WHO. October 22, 2018 In "News" THE Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, LASUTH, in partnership with Vision Care recently commenced a free cataract operation to restore sight to over 100 indigent Lagosians even as an expert disclosed that 50 per cent of the 4.25 million Nigerians that are blind were as a result of cataract. October 11, 2018 In "Health" LADOL recently became the first company in West Africa to be awarded International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) certifications recognising international best practice in areas including risk-based thinking and occupational hazards. April 1, 2019 In "News"