Saturday and Sunday have been scheduled by the Kenyan government for the general headcount of its citizens. For the first time, the intersex people will also be counted by the government officials making it the first African country to recognise such gender. Intersex people are born with physical characteristics that do not fit the typical definitions of male or female, Aljazeera described. A Kenya news media reported the census operation officially started at 6 pm with many Saturday with many Kenyans taking to the social media to describe the questions asked: “were not making sense.”. The governor of Migori in Kenya, Okoth Obado, advised the government to deploy security officers in Lake Victoria’s Migingo Island so that Kenyans residing in the island can take part in the 2019 national population census. “With the ongoing harassments, Kenyans living in these areas will be fearful and might opt to skip the census altogether,” Obado said adding that the government must take charge and ensure they are enlisted. Kenya president, Uhuru Kenyatta, however, noted the exercise will help the government to efficiently plan the future of the citizens. ALSO READ: 12 killed in southeast Niger Boko Haram attack ―Official Mr Kenyatta is quoted by the Kenya Star News to have said; “Mine is to say that I have formally gone through the process. We’ve completed that exercise with my family,” “Once again I reiterate that this is an exercise that’s is geared towards helping us plan for your future. It is an exercise that is geared towards better utilization of your taxes to ensure that they get to the people. You cannot plan if you do not have the right statistics,” he added. The census conducted by Kenyan team of enumerators is expected to be completed by the end of today Sunday.   Two media organisations have come under the hammer of the Kenyan government over plans to cover a gathering in Nairobi where opposition leader Raila Odinga plans to swear himself in as president. January 30, 2018 In "News" By Olasunkanmi Akoni Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP has urged the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, to swiftly develop and adopt public registers for corrupt state governors and other high-ranking public officials charged with and convicted of grand corruption since the return of… August 25, 2019 In "News" Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Kenya, Mr Akin Oyateru, said in Nairobi on Thursday that Nigeria would assist Kenya in the management of its oil industry. September 5, 2013 In "News"