kidnappers By Marie-Therese Nanlong Jos—The Plateau State Police command has arrested and paraded 11 persons allegedly involved in kidnapping and other criminal acts in the state. Ebie, reaping the gains of hard work(Opens in a new browser tab) State Commissioner of Police, Isaac Akinmoyede, who spoke yesterday with journalists at the Police headquarters in Jos, gave a breakdown of how the different suspects were nabbed and assured that the Command was working to rid the state of criminals. According to him, “on the July 5, the Command after a painstaking analysis of the intelligence at its disposal carried out a well coordinated and sweeping raids of the hideouts of some kidnap suspects and that resulted in the arrest of Bashiru Mohammed, Umar Adamu, Yusuf Adamu, Mustapha Mohammed, Shaibu Ado, Dantani Umar, Samaila Saranu Shitu, Adamu Mohammed, Hashimu Ya’u, Jibiro Damuna and Abubakar Hassan, all males. “During interrogation, Bashiru Mohammed and Umar Adamu confessed to have kidnapped a lot of persons and both mentioned Yusuf Adamu, Hashimu Ya’u, Mustapha Mohammed and Shaibu Ado as members of their syndicate responsible for the kidnap at Plateau State Polytechnic Staff Quarters, Heipang, on February 21, Zawan and other places in Jos South Local Government Area of the state. “They further confessed that Bassa, Barkin Ladi and Mangu Local Government areas have been their areas of operation. They also informed the Police during interrogation that they have also operated in Jos Metropolis. “Similarly, Jibiro Damina and Dantani Umar confessed to being responsible for the kidnappings at Jengre axis of Bassa council. Investigation is still ongoing and the suspects will be charged to court soon. “On June 20 at about 3:30p.m., the Command received intelligence on some unknown kidnappers planning to attack and kidnap people in Kangel village of Shendam Local Government Area. “The policemen and intelligence officers were mobilised to neutralise the threat and arrest the criminals. At about 5:30p.m. of the same day, the hoodlums took off from their base to Kalong Road but were intercepted by a team of policemen dispatched to the area. “On sighting the Police, the suspected kidnappers took to their heels, abandoning two unregistered motorcycles. The hoodlums also abandoned a sack containing three AK-47 rifles, three magazines loaded with 30 rounds of live ammunition each, 22 extra 7.62mm calibre ammunition, and one face mask, among others. Detectives are still on the trail of the fleeing suspects. “On July 31, at about 8:40a.m., one Tabitha David of Fakkos Village in Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau State, reported at the Bokkos Police Division that on July 7 at about 1:54p.m., she received a phone call from unknown persons with a hidden number. “She further narrated that the caller asked her to keep N200,000 for them or else they will kill her. On the receipt of the report, investigation commenced immediately which led to the arrest of Sale Abdullahi and Ahmadu Useni, both male, of Fakkos Village. “It was discovered in the course of investigation that the first suspect, Sale Abdullahi is the Secretary of Gam-Allah Fulani Association of Bokkos Local Government Area, while the second suspect, Ahmadu Useni, is the Ward Chairman of the same association also in Bokkos council of Plateau State. “Both suspects have confessed to the commission of the crime. They will be charged to court very soon.” The Police boss further commended the citizens for their cooperation and called for continued support for a more secured state. @vanguardngrnews Vanguard