A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday, adjourned till September 2, the suit seeking the final forfeiture of jewellery valued at $40 million (about N14.4 billion), recovered from a former Petroleum Resources Minister, Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke. Trial judge, Justice Nicholas Oweibo, adjourned to give parties time to respond to pending applications. The court had, on July 5, ordered the temporary forfeiture of 2,149 pieces of jewellery and a customised golden iPhone recovered from Alison-Madueke’s home. Strike Force intercepts truckload of fake jewelleries(Opens in a new browser tab) The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, which obtained the order, had alleged that the items were suspected to be bought with illicitly acquired funds. At the hearing in the matter, yesterday, prosecuting counsel,  Rotimi Oyedepo informed the court that he had just been served a counter affidavit by the defence and would need time to respond. A representative of Prof Awa Kalu SAN, counsel to the defendant also informed the court that they would appreciate an adjournment as the chambers’ resources are currently overstretched. Upholding their prayers, Justice Oweibo adjourned further proceedings till September 2. VANGUARD A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, Friday, adjourned till September 22, to hear the application for the final forfeiture of four buildings in Lagos and River States and Abuja, valued at N2. 6billion, linked to the former Minister of Petroleum, Diezani Allison-Madueke and her associates. September 8, 2017 In "News" A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, yesterday, adjourned till February 16, to deliver judgment in the suit by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC,) seeking forfeiture of funds linked to a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Allison-Madueke. January 25, 2017 In "News" A former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs Diezani Alison-Madueke, has urged the court to order the return of her 2,149 pieces of jewellery and a customised gold iPhone, valued at $40m, which were seized by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. August 19, 2019 In "News"