Russian footballers Pavel Mamaev and Alexander Kokorin were released on Tuesday after spending nearly a year in prison over a night of drunken assaults. Russian state television showed Krasnodar midfielder Mamaev, 31, and Zenit Saint Petersburg forward Kokorin, 28, leave the prison where they were held in the southwestern Belgorod region. Wearing black hoodies, the pair rushed to a car while refusing to take questions from the media gathered outside the prison. A court this month granted the footballers early release following their convictions in May for last year’s attacks in Moscow. Including time in pre-trial detention, they had served 11 months of their 17-18 month sentences for hooliganism. READ ALSO: Between Soldiers and Footballers In a booze-fuelled night last October, Mamaev and Kokorin first assaulted the chauffeur of a TV presenter as he waited in a car park. In an assault caught on video, they then attacked two government officials in an upmarket cafe, hitting one of them with a chair. The assaults sparked outrage in Russia, where the pair had previously caused scandal when a video emerged from a Monte Carlo nightclub showing them cavorting at a champagne-fuelled party shortly after Russia’s early exit from Euro 2016. The Russian Premier League last year condemned the assault and briefly considered a lifetime ban. Krasnodar still lists Mamaev as a player on its website, which says that his contract is valid until the end of the year. Both players are Russian internationals though Kokorin last played for the national side in late 2017, while Mamaev was last selected in 2016. VANGUARD Zenit St Petersburg are aiming to strengthen their grip on the Russian Premier League title as the leaders prepare for Saturday's trip to fellow championship chasers Krasnodar. April 19, 2019 In "Sports" Samuel Eto'o and Lacina Traore scored as big-spending Anzhi Makhachkala beat Volga Nizhny Novgorod 2-1 to go top in Russia on Sunday after CSKA Moscow had slumped 2-0 at city rivals Dynamo. September 30, 2012 In "Sports" Errors at either end saw Russia and Korea Republic share the spoils in Group H, with Igor Akinfeev gifting the Asian side the lead before Alexander Kerzhakov tapped in following a goal-mouth scramble to see it finish 1-1. The final pair of sides to take their bows at 2014 FIFA… June 18, 2014 In "2018 World Cup"