September 9, 2019: Venita has been evicted from the Big Brother Naija house following the Monday nomination challenge which had five housemates up for possible evictions. She’s the 15th housemate to leave the show. Venita was up for possible eviction alongside Frodd, Elozonam, Omashola and Khafi who was replaced with Seyi during the live nomination show on Monday. During the live show, BBNaija host, Ebuka asked Tacha about her fight with Seyi, with which she responded “Seyi is just older than me but does not have sense and act his age. What I have achieved at 23, Seyi has not achieved at his age, If it wasn’t for Big Brother, he wouldn’t have achieved anything.” International Happiness Day: Monarch calls for unity, peaceful co-existence(Opens in a new browser tab) The twists and turns this week had housemates in their feelings including Venita who had a showdown with Mercy after the Saturday night party. Earlier in the week, Mercy and Ike made history as the first housemates to win the Joint Head of House on the reality show after winning the ball throwing challenge. The Sunday live eviction show had the pop star  Skibii perform  some of his hit tracks including, “Daz How Star do, Sensima and Ah Skibii.  DJ Enimoney also got the audience dancing to hit songs from some of Nigeria’s best musicians. There are now only 11 housemates left in the race to win the 30 million naira cash and 60 million worth of prizes courtesy of Big Brother Naija. Vanguard Joe Abdallah and Ede Nkechiyere aka Enkay have been evicted from the ongoing fourth season of the Big Brother Naija show. August 18, 2019 In "News" There has never been a season of the Big Brother show without some form of romance lighting up the scene and Big Brother Naija Season 4 is no exception. BBNaija: Fans hail new housemates Venita, Elozonam(Opens in a new browser tab) The first real couple to get over the line,… August 11, 2019 In "News" It was the end of the road for two Big Brother Naija housemates, Esther and Sir Dee as they got evicted from the Big Brother house during the 9th eviction show of the ‘Pepper Dem’ Season 4 held on Sunday 1st September 2019. September 2, 2019 In "Entertainment"