 The new Provost of the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, Prof. Olufemi Adeoluwa has lamented infrastructural deficit and poor academic culture, facing the 42-year-old Institution. He also identified funding as one of the challenges confronting the institution. Prof. Adeoluwa who revealed this during his inauguration as the 9th substantive provost of the College, said those shortcomings have affected it in fulfilling the stated vision of the Institution. He urged the state governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi to make more funds available to the college. Prof. Adeoluwa while soliciting the support of all stakeholders, revealed that he would welcome initiatives and workable ideas geared towards the accelerated progress of the college. ” As it is today, the college is faced with a lot of challenges which threaten the further fulfillment of its vision. These include inadequate funding and infrastructure, poor academic culture, lack of cutting-edge research and unattractive environment. These challenges are however not insuperable. “I, therefore, trust God that with the backing of the Governing Council headed by a God-fearing veteran administrator and the support of staff and students, this college will soon be repositioned to fulfill its mandate,” he said. The Chairman Governing Council of the college, Chief Afolabi Ojuawo noted that college would be expecting a lot of reforms from the new provost in a bid to take the institution to a higher level. Chief Ojuawo advised the government to set out motions that would turn the college to degrees awarding institution after over 42 years of its existence. The Special Adviser to the governor on Tertiary Institution, Dr.Sikiru Eniola applauded the governor for placing merit above other things in approving the appointment of the new provost for the college He disclosed that the state government is drawing partnership with donor agencies in and outside the country in the area of funding for the education sector in the state. Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti on Tuesday approved the removal of the Vice- Chancellor (V-C) of the Ekiti State University, (EKSU), Prof. Sam Oye-Bandele. January 22, 2019 In "News" Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State yesterday accused lecturers in some higher institutions of being responsible for the increasing incidences of sexual harassment and cultism in higher institutions in the country. October 29, 2015 In "News" Workers of the 32 years old College of Education, Ikere Ekiti, Wednesday, staged a peaceful protest over what they described as refusal of the state government to pay them the new salary scale. February 3, 2011 In "News"