South Africa’s international relations minister has called for Africa to better manage migration. Naledi Pandor’s comments came in the wake of a wave of xenophobic attacks. Talking to migrant representatives, she also said that African leaders should not be allowed to worsen conditions in their countries and expect others to deal with the resulting migration. Twelve people were killed earlier this month when mobs attacked foreign-owned businesses, mainly in Johannesburg. Ten of the victims were South African and two were Zimbabweans. President Cyril Ramaphosa told the BBC that he felt ashamed by the recent violence. “We are very concerned and of course as a nation, we [are] ashamed because this goes against the ethos of what South Africa stands for,” he said. But in looking for solutions according to BBC report, Ms Pandor suggested this was not just a South African issue. “We need to talk about the role that sending countries and transit countries play in assisting receiving countries such as South Africa, Kenya, Uganda and many others and in helping them manage the issue of migration far more effectively,” she told members of the African Diaspora Forum in Pretoria. South Africa has become a magnet for migrants from other parts of Africa as it has one of the continent’s biggest and most developed economies. But there is also high unemployment in the country and some people feel foreigners are taking their jobs. Vanguard Nigeria News. South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has told the BBC that he feels ashamed over the recent outbreak of xenophobic violence in the country and reiterated his commitment in welcoming foreigners into the country stating South Africa is not against foreign nationals. The xenophobic attacks by the South Africans include the… September 17, 2019 In "News" When videos of fresh attacks, looting, burning of foreigners, businesses and properties belonging to foreigners, (including Nigerians) went viral on social media on Sunday, controversial Dubai-based billionaire Nigerian, Ray Hushpuppi, expressed anger at Nigerian celebrities for failing to exploit their celebrity status in nipping the incessant attacks on Nigerians in… September 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" South Africa is irked over Nigeria’s call on the Africa Union (AU) to intervene in the renewed xenophobia attacks in the southern African country. February 24, 2017 In "News"