Eleven suspects, among them members of Eiye confraternities and robbery gangs were arrested weekend in Ikorodu, Bariga and Akoka areas of Lagos by Nigeria Police. Recovered from the suspects were arms and ammunition, including battle axes, knives among other dangerous weapons. One of the arrests involved two suspected leaders of the Eiye confraternity that have been fomenting trouble in Imota area of Ikorodu. The suspects: Emmanuel Chinonso, 21, and Thomas Israel, 20, were apprehended by operatives of Operation Crush attached to Imota Division, in Igbalu community, Ikorodu, at about 9 am on Saturday,  with the recovery of two battle-axes, knife and one beret belonging to  Eiye confraternity. During interrogation, police said that the suspects confessed to being leaders of the Eiye cult group and gave information which led to the arrest of seven  other suspected members of their group whose identities were given as Ariyo Omonuga,  25; Oyerinde Omoniyi, 23; Adelaja Opeyemi, 28; Hassan Babatunde,26; Sodiq Babatunde, 24; Sodiq Oladire, 22; and Shakiru Liasu, 18. Investigation according to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Elkana Bala, was still ongoing, at the end of which the suspects would be charged to court. Robbery suspects. Similarly,  one Daniel Okorie, 29, was weekend arrested following a failed attempt to steal a white Paragon bus parked in a compound at Akoka area of the state. Also arrested was a suspected robbery gang, Francis Aiyekomologbon. He was arrested by policemen from Bariga division, while allegedly robbing one Damilare Ismaila of his phone and other valuables. The suspects, according to Bala, “ confessed to the commission of the crimes. The investigation is ongoing and they will be charged to Court”. Vanguard LAGOS—Six suspected members of Aye and Eiye cult groups that have been terrorising Imoren area of Ikorodu, Lagos, have been arrested by the Lagos State Police Command. September 5, 2016 In "News" My other job was to cook for our members. I don’t know how my parents will feel now seeing me in this position. I regret my action June 23, 2019 In "Special Report" Bloodbath was averted in Ilasamaja area of Lagos State, after eagle-eyed Policemen arrested five self- confessed members of Eiye confraternity, who were on revenge mission. Among them was a suspected leader of the Ilasamaja chapter of Eiye confraternity, Ayodele Shotayo, popularly known as AY, who has been on police wanted… July 16, 2016 In "Crime Guard"