The Ekiti State Government on Thursday said Governor Kayode Fayemi didn’t commit any illegality in the composition of State Independent Electoral Commission. It dismissed the claim of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) that the Chairman of the State Independent Electoral Commission(SIEC), Justice Jide Aladejana, was a dismissed judicial officer and not fit to hold such a sensitive position. The government insisted that Aladejana was never dismissed from the bench by the National  Judicial Council (NJC) as claimed by the PDP and that his appointment didn’t breach the law or vitiate the composition of SIEC. The PDP had last week accused Fayemi of violating the existing statute by appointing a “dismissed” Judge as the Chairman of such a high ranking commission. A statement by the party’s State Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo, alleged the ruling party of plotting to compromise the conduct of the December 7, 2019 elections by this action. But the Information Commissioner, Mr. Muyiwa Olumilua, yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, clarified that Aladejana was only suspended, after the ill-fated impeachment against former  Governor Ayodele  Fayose in 2006. Olumilua clarified that the then Acting Governor, Hon. Tope Ademiluyi, who emerged following the proclamation of the state of emergency by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, had reinstated Aladejana and asked him to resume duty as a Judge, thereby lifting the said suspension placed on him by the NJC. Olumilua added: “Being a State Judge, the NJC had no jurisdiction, or authority to dismiss or suspend him, as he was an employee of the State, not the Federal Government. “The NJC can only recommend such to the governor, but the power and the authority lie with the State Government, to either accept or reject the recommendation of the NJC. It has no powers to enforce it. “Governors Segun Oni and Kayode Fayemi did not reverse the decision of Hon. Tope Ademiluyi, retaining Justice Aladejana as a Judge in the employ of Ekiti State Government. “The said suspension is still being contested at   Supreme Court and still awaiting a ruling. ” All said, Justice Aladejana is still a Judge of Ekiti State Government, and is eminently qualified to be appointed as the Chairman of SIEC. Nothing precludes or vitiates his appointment”, he stated. During the imbroglio leading to Fayose’s impeachment in 2006, the then Hon. Friday Aderemi-led  House of Assembly had suspended the Chief Judge of the State, Justice Kayode Bamisile for allegedly hobnobbing with Fayose. The Assembly said the alleged fraternity between the duo, had compromised the impeachment panel set up by Justice Bamisile to try Fayose over allegations of gross misconduct. Subsequently, Justice Aladejana was appointed in acting capacity to fill the vacancy in the judiciary, which the NJC said was a flagrant violation of the laws and the principles of separation of powers.  Vanguard News The battle for the control and dominance of the grassroots and its resources has never been a tea party among the contending political forces, as the ruling party in each state want to be in charge of the Local Government Areas. October 18, 2015 In "News" Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has dismissed the resolution of the lower chamber of the National Assembly directing the Federal Government to withhold allocation to the Local Governments in the state, saying the resolution was a sharp contrast with the Supreme Court judgement over the withdrawal of allocation to… November 4, 2010 In "News" AHEAD of the Ekiti state governorship election, a Non Governmental Organisation,  Patriots for Better Nigeria (PBN) has threatened to challenge Dr Kayode Fayemi’s suitability to contest the election. May 3, 2018 In "Politics"