A group, Warri Urhobo Democratic Alliance has called on Niger Deltans to support the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, to achieve the  development goals of the commission in the region. A statement signed by Professor Douglas Ewharute , Engr Justin Akpobaro  and made available to newsmen in Warri, Delta state also lauded President Muhammadu Buhari  for appointing a worthy son of Delta state Chief Bernard Okumagba  as Managing Director of the commission, adding it commended the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ovie Omo –Agege for his role in the appointment of  Chief Okumagba. “We the good people of the Urhobo of Warri, Delta south senatorial district are very happy  over the appointment of Chief Bernard  Okumagba  by President Muhammadu Buhari as the Managing Directcor of NDDC.  Chief Bernard Okumagba had been a good ambassador of Delta state, Delta south and Warri south in particular. Niger-Delta People Liberation Force throws weight behind new board of NDDC(Opens in a new browser tab) His Excellency President Buhari deserve commendation for recognizing hard work. Chief Benard is a seasoned and refined technocrat , a politician per excellence  with a track record . He is an achiever , very reliable and committed man whose wealth of experience he will  bring to bear as the Managing Director of the NDDC. His appointment is timely and well deserved. .”, the group said. Vanguard Rights activist, Chief Rita Lori-Ogbebor, has faulted what she termed the sidelining of Itsekiri ethnic group in the appointment of  Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and Chairman of the board of the commission, describing the action as against the Act establishing the NDDC. September 4, 2019 In "News" WARRI - PRESIDENT General of Urhobo Youth Council (U.Y.C) Festus Otesiri Igherebuo, has described as "wise choice", the appointment of Chief Bernard Okumagba as Managing Director of next Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Board. August 29, 2019 In "News" THE Warri Indigenes Network (WIN) has asked the President and Nigerians to ignore the statement credited to Chief Rita-Lori Ogbebor on the new Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC as it is a complete misinterpretation and misrepresentation of provisions of the NDDC Act. September 4, 2019 In "News"