Habib Cisse, the former legal advisor to disgraced IAAF president Lamine Diack, was on Monday banned from athletics for life for his role in obstructing sanctions against Russia for doping in return for payments. The IAAF Ethics Board said its panel had imposed upon “Cisse a lifetime ban from any further involvement of any kind in the sport of track and field and a fine of US $25,000 (22,612 euros)”. Cisse, the Board said, had helped cover up doping violations by “Liliya Shobukhova and other Russian athletes”. Cisse, 41, was advisor to Diack, who was president of the International Association of Athletics Federations between 1999-2015. READ ALSO: Nadal to meet Medvedev seeking 5th Rogers Cup title Diack and his son Papa Massata Diack are to stand trial in France on charges of corruption and money laundering, sources told AFP in June. Cisse is one of four others who will face trial on the same charges along with former president of the Russian Athletics Federation (ARAF) and IAAF Treasurer Valentin Balakhnichev, Russia’s former national middle distance coach Alexei Melnikov and the IAAF’s former anti-doping chief Gabriel Dolle. The French investigation into Diack began in 2015 when Britain’s Sebastian Coe took over from the 86-year-old Senegalese as IAAF president. VANGUARD A World Anti-Doping Agency report said Thursday that corruption was "embedded" at the world athletics body piling pressure on its new leader Sebastian Coe. The International Association of Athletics Associaions (IAAF) must have known about corruption orchestrated by its former leader Lamine Diack, it said. But Richard Pound, the former… January 14, 2016 In "News" Interpol said Thursday it has issued a wanted notice for Papa Massata Diack, son of Lamine Diack, the disgraced former president of world athletics’ governing body the IAAF. January 14, 2016 In "Sports" French authorities have added to former IAAF president Lamine Diack's legal problems by charging him with favouring his son in negotiations over sponsorship and TV rights, sources close to the case revealed on Friday. September 14, 2018 In "Sports"