The Beeta Universal Arts Foundation, led by award-winning actress and producer, Bikiya Graham-Douglas, invites playwrights from across the country to apply for its third edition of Beeta Playwright Competition by sending in their unpublished plays. The competition is open to indigenous playwrights between ages 18-40. Entries close on September 30, 2019 with 10 finalists to be selected for a writer’s workshop and a winner emerging at the grand finale. The winner gets N1 million, a publishing deal with Paper Worth Books Limited and the winning play produced by BUAF at MUSON Centre, Lagos. It will also be part of a nationwide University campus performance outreach. The Beeta Universal Arts Foundation was created to harness the literary prowess of unheard voices in Nigeria. The first edition of the contest produced Our Son the Minister written by Paul Ugbede and Jagagba by Abdul Qudus-Ibrahim for its second edition. Both plays experienced enormous success prize of 1 million Naira, publishing deal, and live performances. For this coming competition, an esteemed jury panel made up of award-winning playwright and professor of Theatre, Ahmed Yerima, culture/film journalist and arts Administrator, Shaibu Husseini, veteran Actress and producer, Ego Boyo, theatre producer and writer, Ayo Jaiyesimi, director and actor, Kenneth Uphopho and publisher/bookseller, Ibiso Graham-Douglas, will curate the playwright workshop and decide the final winner of the prize. For this third edition, BUAF enjoys the partnership once again of Union Bank Plc, with its high-ranking representatives not only recognizing how invaluable the arts is to preserving and showcasing culture and history but also committed to developing talent in the creative industry. Other supporters of the contest include NIMASA, British Council, Olajide & Oyewole LLP. vanguard BEETA Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF) will stage its 2018 winning play, Jagagba at Agip Recital Hall, MUSON Centre next weekend, from Friday through Sunday, July 19, 2019, founder of BUAF and award-winning actress and producer, Bikiya Graham-Douglas, has said in a statement. Jagagba is written by Abdul-Qudus Ibrahim. July 19, 2019 In "News" BEETA Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF) led by the award winning actress and producer Bikiya Graham-Douglas demonstrated its mission to take art to the next level with a successful hosting of the 2nd edition of Beeta Playwright Competition (BPC) which produced another winner in the person of Abdul-Qudus Ibrahim, who beat… February 7, 2019 In "The Arts" AFTER its first successful outing, Beeta Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF) is set for the second outing of the stage play Our Son the Minister, written Mr. Paul Ugbede, directed by Mr. Kenneth Uphopho, and produced by award-winning actress and talented thespian, Bikiya Graham-Douglas. November 1, 2018 In "The Arts"