A wonder bank posing as empowerment trading, investment agency has defrauded its customers of over N20 million in Sapele Local Government Area, of Delta State. The wonder bank, Achievers Biz Economic and Development Scheme, located at number 44 Dedevwo road, Gana area, Sapele, opened its office a month ago, encouraging depositors to save up to certain amount after which they will be granted soft loan with about 300% of their savings, they however, absconded after cajoling customers of their hard earn money. The reality, however, dawned on the depositors at the weekend when news filtered out that some staff of the company were sighted the previous night carrying traveling bags and were in a hurry. On Friday morning, over 100 depositors who besieged the office, waited over 5 hours and unable to reach out to the phone numbers provided, the reality dawned on them that they have been duped, some of them were said to have broken into the wonder bank office, carting away office equipment like laptops air-conditioners and even generators. Mrs. Ese Oghenevwogaga, One of the victims, who spoke to Vanguard said she and her friends had contributed #900,000 to the agency after they promised to loan them four million naira which they were expected to pay back in installments. In addition, she said that Achievers Biz Economic and Development Scheme had slated Monday 16th, September 2019 for the disbursement of the loan, only for them to abscond on 13th September 2019. Another lady by name Ada Ogechi said that she and church members contributed 150,000 naira each, amounting to one million five hundred thousand naira. She said that the agency had promised to give them a loan of one million, five hundred thousand nairas each. She said that they were alerted when she heard from a source that the company staff was seen leaving the office in the early hours of the day. Grace Ogigoro who also spoke to Vanguard said that she and her sister contributed 50,000 naira as the manager of achievers biz economic and development scheme promised to give them a loan of 400,000, but little did they know that they were been scammed. She appealed to the security agents to come to their rescue and assist them in recovering their money. When Vanguard visited the premises of Achievers biz economic and development scheme on Saturday and Sunday, depositors were still seen hanging around and wearing long faces. All efforts to reach the management of Achievers biz economic and development scheme through the numbers on their signpost proved abortive as the numbers have been switched off.  ABA—NO fewer than 50 women, yesterday, besieged the Central Police Station, Aba, Abia State, threatening to kill the operator of a wonder bank, who reportedly swindled them of over N 5million. November 1, 2018 In "News" We are still anxious and desirous of either the bank reopen its door or be liquidated so that we end the suffering of depositors. We have been pushing this; the CBN has been concerned over the years since the restoration of the license. Series of meetings and efforts have been… January 16, 2017 In "Business" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, has arrested the Managing Director of a “wonder bank” in Enugu for allegedly defrauding its customers about N4 billion. October 7, 2016 In "News"