A Nigerian provider of instructor-led information technology certification training, New Horizons, said it has  emerging technology certifications and micro-credentials to its public training schedule. The certifications are in partnership with  CertNexus, another organisation that focuses on providing certifications for IT professionals. Connected world: How Nigerian businesses can benefit from IoT’s bright future(Opens in a new browser tab) The company said the move became imperative as companies navigate within the fourth industrial revolution. Managing Director of New Horizons Nigeria, Mr. Tim Akano, said: “Certification programmes provided by CertNexus on cyber security, Internet of Things, IoT, and Artificial Intelligence, AI, broaden the knowledge of IT and Security professionals and validate skills using globally recognized curriculum and high stakes examinations. “CertNexus micro-credentials provide business leaders, project managers, and compliance personnel the necessary knowledge to lead projects and make informed decisions.” He added. Anchor University students develop library solution app(Opens in a new browser tab) Chief Security Officer, CertNexus, Christine Harper, said  “We’re thrilled to have New Horizons Nigeria as our newest authorised training partner. We’ve developed courses, certifications, and micro-credentials that offer standardisations in the world of data security, IoT and AI, and the fact that New Horizons Nigeria has expanded their offerings to include our courses further exemplifies the necessity to certify skill sets such as these. We’ll join forces and utilise their expansive network of locations to make this possible”. Harper said billions of dollars will be gained and lost in these areas over the next five years.   He added that for any organisation to succeed in this environment, training and confirming skills is the best investment towards growth. Vanguard A lot of Nigerian organisations are under serious panic as cyber plague hovers over their operations with menacing speed. However, marketing and technology company, Gidinerd Limited, says it has plans to provide services capable of remedying the threat, if not nip the menace in the bud. March 27, 2019 In "Technology" Canadian phone maker, BlackBerry Limited Wednesday announced the launch of its new Professional Cybersecurity Services practice that will further expand BlackBerry’s security portfolio by offering organizations new consulting services, tools and best practices to assess and thwart ever-changing cybersecurity risks. February 24, 2016 In "News" In line with the 21st century smart classroom, Bowen University has deployed over N5 million interactive electronic boards from its information technology partner, New Horizons Limited. January 13, 2016 In "Technology"