Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, on Wednesday, swore in Commissioners and Special Advisers who will assist him to run the affairs of the state. Swearing in the Commissioners and Advisers, Gov. Ugwuanyi said that performance will be key and periodically benchmarked as a basis to remain in office. Ugwuanyi who pointed out that his administration will not tolerate any corrupt practice emphasized that the new appointees’ loyalty as public officers should be to God and the state. Ugwuanyi added that they “must at all times be seen to pursue honesty, transparency, accountability, equity, justice, fairness and unalloyed commitment to your duty in the course of your service to this state”. Gov. Ugwuanyi, who earlier in the day swore in Dr Festus Uzor as his Chief of Staff, announced Mr Chuks Ugwoke as his Chief Press Secretary, disclosing that “the Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Deputy Governor will be appointed in due course and all other appointments will follow suit. Ugwuanyi stated that “every Public Officer on this journey must wear his/her seat belt”, stressing that “our administration will be on the fast track to delivering the public good to Ndi Enugu in the remaining three years, eight months and five days of this tenure”. He, therefore, informed the Commissioners and Advisers of the 3-day Policy retreat from September 26 to 28, which will take them through the government’s policy direction. He also stated that the appointees are expected to digest the sectoral recommendations applicable to their respective Ministries to keep them properly focused on the delivery of their ministerial mandate. Gov. Ugwuanyi further disclosed that the work and recommendations of the 12 sectoral ad-hoc committees comprising highly experienced Technocrats, Professionals, the Academia, etc, culminated in his administration’s new strategic architecture with cross-cutting and sector-specific plans for the advancement of good governance and optimization of service delivery in the state. “This is intended to facilitate the fulfilment of our campaign promises and social contract with Ndi Enugu”, the governor said. Congratulating them on their appointments which Ugwuanyi said were based on their “individual competencies and capacities”, Gov. Ugwuanyi, who reiterated his administration’s commitment to participatory democracy, emphasized that “you must have walked a tight rope of constituency consensus building around your choices given the inclusive and participatory approach adopted in your appointment”. According to Ugwuanyi, “I invite you to recall that our re-election victory was a referendum on our first term performance. We enjoyed electoral support that is unprecedented in recent history, scoring 95.54 per cent of total votes cast in the 2019 gubernatorial elections in Enugu State. While this enriched our political and leadership credentials, it also put a burden of performance on us, for to whom much is given, much is also expected”. The newly sworn-in Commissioners by Ugwuanyi were Chief Miletus Ezugworie Eze; Engr. Greg Nnaji; Hon. Barr. Chijioke Edeoga; Barr. Chidi Aroh; Prince Emeka Mamah; Mr. Vitus Okechi; Mr. Solomon Izuchukwu Onah; Hon. Princess Peace Nnaji; Dr. Charles O. C. Egumgbe; Rt. Hon. Mathias Ekweremadu (Jnr.); Hon. Uchechukwu Ogbonna; Mrs. Mabel Chinwe Agbo; Mrs. Adaonah Kene-Uyanwune; Prof. Uchenna Eze; Barr. Peter Okonkwo; Mr. Obi Carl kama; Mr. Ugonna Ibe; Dr. Surv. Victor Chukwuemeka Nnam and Prof. Anthony Ugochukwu. Ugwuanyi The Special Advisers include Mrs. Olangwa N. Ezekwu; Mr. Uwakwe Ukuta Azikiwe; Mr. Uchenna Emmanuel Ogbodo; Dr. Kingsley Tochukwu Udeh, Esq; Engr. Mrs. Maryrose Obiageli Abba; Barr. Stephen Oluchukwu Oruruo and Barr. Paschal Okechukwu Ukwuani. Ugwuanyi Vanguard The people of Ozom in Aguobu-Owa in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State recently presented “Ofo” to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi “as a symbol of support and endorsement for His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and his Deputy, Her Excellency, Lolo Cecilia Ezeilo for 2019”. July 29, 2017 In "News" Medical doctors in Enugu State for the first time in the history of the state yesterday paid a solidarity visit to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi at the Government House in appreciation of his entrenchment of peace and good governance. June 13, 2018 In "News" THE People of Ezeagu Local Government Area yesterday,  unanimously endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for re-election in 2019, saying he has delivered on his campaign promises and considered the people of the area in political appointments. March 19, 2018 In "News"