MEMBERS of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Delta under the auspices of APC Faithful, have applauded the nomination of Olorogun Bernard Okumagba, as the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. In a statement signed by members of the group, the choices of Okumagba as Managing Director and Prophet Jones Erue as Commissioner representing Delta on the board of the NDDC, was described as wise and fitting. Leaders of the group who signed the statement include Mr. Okandeji Emma, APC Warri South LGA Deputy Chairman; Prince Egbe Valentine, APC leader; Comrade Onodarho Esiri, APC Warri South LGA Secretary; and Chief (Mrs.) Obruche Mary, APC leader. Support Okowa, he’ll do more, Otuaro urges Deltans (Opens in a new browser tab) Others are Mr. Anime Vincent, APC Warri South LGA PRO; Mrs. Okpikpi Lucy, APC Ward 9 Women leader; and Mr. Eruyomota Jeffrey, APC Ward 12 Chairman. “The APC Faithful heartily felicitate with our leaders, Olorogun Bernard Okumagba and Prophet Jones Ode Erue as Managing Director and Commissioner respectively in the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. “We appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari for making Niger Deltans proud and also acknowledged the support of the Deputy Senate President, Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege”, the statement said. Vanguard FORMER Niger Delta agitators under the auspices of ex-Niger Delta militant in the riverine community of Okoloba-Bomadi local government Area of Delta State have kicked against the appointment of Mr. Bernard Okumagba as Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) September 3, 2019 In "News" THE Ijaw ethnic nationality in All Progressives Congress, APC, in Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State, have applauded the Senate for the confirmation of Engr. Ajogbe Samuel Ajenakevwe and Ogaga Ifowodo as Executive Director Project and Commissioner representing the state respectively, on the board of Niger Delta Development… October 24, 2016 In "News" MEMBERS of the All Progressive Congress, APC from Itsekiri and Isoko ethnic oil nationalities in Delta State are furious at the party’s nomination of Adjogbe Ajenakevwe, an Urhobo, as Executive Director Projects, EDP, on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and forwarding of his name to the… July 30, 2016 In "News"