Financial experts say Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) proposed policy that will ensure that loan defaulters forfeit their deposits in others banks is commendable. They said this in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. Mr Solomon Itodo, a financial expert said the policy was a good one if it could be implemented fully and all parties involved have clearly defined roles. “It will boost lenders’ confidence knowing that repayment is not tied only to accounts being operated with them. “This, however, is dependent on the level of cooperation among banks given the level of competition for customer patronage. “Unless there are sanctions which will apply for non compliance or access to carry out debits by the creditor from these accounts, this will just be another policy with good intentions and no real substance.” Itodo, however, said that the full provisions of the policy should be made known, otherwise  erring debtors would easily circumvent it in a number of ways like operating accounts in different company names or having accounts operated by proxies. He added that to make the policy work, accounts which should be considered as payment accounts should include personal accounts and accounts of companies with directors. Breaking: EFCC gathering Intel On 77 Nigerian wire fraud suspects on FBI list – Magu(Opens in a new browser tab) Another financial expert, Mrs Grace Audu, said it would serve as a deterrent to people who collect loan from one bank and then disappear to go start another account in another bank. According to her, it will help to totally sanitise the system. She also said that some banks that had folded up or had to merge with other banks ran into problems because of such customers. “Once CBN puts this into effect, the clause of Lien/set off will also apply in your accounts with other banks and not just the same bank. “It will definitely reduce the bad loan portfolio of some banks, which will make them stronger and more profitable.” Audu added that bank marketers would be able to breathe a sigh of relief as many of them do not like to market loans to small businesses because if they do not pay, the bank holds the marketers responsible. This, she said, in turn makes many of the marketers lose their jobs. “So this development will provide more guarantee for the marketers, and reduce the likelihood of losing their jobs because of  such customers”, she said. Some bank customers also applauded the policy. Mr Nduka Adibe, a civil servant, said it was a good initiative as he knew quite a number of civil servants who took loans from one bank and moved on to the next bank to operate other accounts without offsetting the previous loan. He said that with the Bank Verification Number (BVN), it would be easier for banks to implement the policy. Adibe, however, said that the CBN should fine-tune the policy in such a way that banks do not victimise honest borrowers by taking over their deposits in other banks before payment time for the loan was due. Mr Aminu Abdulwahab, a businessman, said although the policy may discourage small business owners from making deposits in banks, it would go a long way in enhancing others got loans with ease. This, he said, was because the borrowers would be made to reveal their true financial status in other banks, a move that would embolden the lenders to give out the money. NAN reports that Mrs Aisha Ahmad, the Deputy Governor, CBN, on Monday at the 345th Bankers’ Committee Meeting in Lagos, said that the bank was proposing to implement a policy that would make loan defaulters forfeit their deposits in others banks. (NAN) Vanguard Banking and finance in 2014 were defined by efforts of industry players and regulators to enhance the quality of banking services as well as increase access to finance for critical sectors of the economy. Amidst these efforts, the industry experienced two major reality checks, which impacted regulation and monetary policy… December 29, 2014 In "Finance" This vision draws inspiration from our understanding of the multiple mandate of the Bank to pursue both price and financial system stability as well as provide complementary developmental functions by creating an environment for Nigerians to live better and more fulfilled lives. Rather than being competing goals, as some may… June 6, 2014 In "Special Report" The Central Bank of Nigeria of Nigeria (CBN) has banned indebted banks from lending to other banks in the interbank money market. It also banned banks that lend funds in the interbank market from accessing its lending facilities. July 30, 2012 In "Finance"