Onyeabo said that the defendants could not defend case of over voting and irregularities against them. The Tribunal ordered that election should be conducted within 90 days. The areas in dispute are; Burutu, Bomadi, Patani, Isoko North, Warri South-West and Warri North local government areas. Speaking shortly after the judgement, counsel to senator James Manager, Larry Selekeowei SAN said that they were not satisfied with the judgement, adding that they will study and appealed the judgement. Also read: Niger tribunal: Gov. Sani Bello urges tribunal to dismiss petition against him Chairman of the panel one, Justice A. M Abubaka in his judgement which lasted for four hours, held the election victory of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege APC, representing Delta Central district in the February 23, 2019 National Assembly elections. Declaring that the petitions filed by the candidate of the PDP, Evelyn Oboro lacked merit and it was dismissed, Abubakar struck out Oboro’s four prayers which include seeking the tribunal to declare her as the winner of the election. Meanwhile, the election Petition Tribunal Panel III presided by Justice E.I Ngene dismissed the petition brought by APC candidate Doris Uboh against Senator Peter Nwauboshi of the PDP and Senator representing Delta North in the National Assembly, adding that the petition was dead on arrival Uboh who contested against Senator Peter Nwauboshi at the February 23rd 2019, went to the tribunal to challenge the election victory of Nwauboshi citing irregularities.  DELTA election petition tribunal, panel two, sitting in Asaba, has sacked Senator James Manager of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP as Senator representing Delta South in the National Assembly. September 7, 2019 In "News" DR. EMMANUELUduaghan’s tenure as Governor of Delta State was brought to an abrupt end, yesterday, after the five-man Court of Appeal panel presided over by Justice Monica Dongban-Mensah, in Benin annulled the process that brought him to power. The panel in a unanimous decision ruled that the election was marred… November 9, 2010 In "Headlines" As the deadline for the expiration of Election Petition Tribunals sitting across the country draws nearer, results emanating from the tribunals have elicited mixed feelings among the various political parties. October 16, 2015 In "News"