The Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, has hailed the victory of Gov. Abdullahi Sule at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lafia. In a statement made available to newsmen in Lafia on Saturday, Ibrahim-Balarabe said that the judgment had further demonstrated that the judiciary was indeed the last hope of the common man. “We are happy over the verdict as my people and people across the state voted massively for the governor during the election. “His Excellency, Gov. Abdullahi Sule’s victory at the tribunal is a victory for peace, unity, progress and development of the state,”he said. He also lauded the panel of judges for painstakingly delivering the judgment that reflected the will and aspirations of the people of the state. Ibrahim-Balarabe commended the APC lawyers and INEC for a job well done as they stood for justice. He felicitated with Gov. Abdullahi Sule, his Deputy, Dr Emanuel Akabe, the APC family and the entire people of the state for the resounding victory which he described as a victory for democracy. The statement called on the people of the state to continue to pray and support the policies and programmes of the government for the benefit of all. News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lafia had on Saturday affirmed the election of Gov. Abdullahi Sule of the APC. Delivering judgment, Justice Abba Mohammed, Chairman of the Tribunal, dismissed the petition filed by Mr David Ombugadu, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) challenging the election of Gov. Sule in the March 9 Governorship poll. In a unanimous judgment, the tribunal held that Ombugadu’s petition lacked merit. Sule of APC polled 327, 229 votes to defeat Ombugadu of PDP who scored 184, 281 votes in the March 9 governorship elections. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Senator representing Nasarawa West Senatorial District, Alhaji Abdullahi  Adamu, has begun his third term senatorial campaign with a call on Nigerians to vote President Muhammadu Buhari, to complete his good work beyond  2019. January 5, 2019 In "News" AHEAD of 2019, the speaker of the Nasarawa state House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, on monday affirmed that President Muhammadu Buhari remained the best presidential candidate for Nigeria in 2019 as the country is assured under his watchas the president. May 28, 2018 In "News" Gov. Umaru Al-Makura of Nasarawa State has re-nominated two ex-chairmen of the Interim Management Committee (IMC) for Keana and Keffi local Government Areas to the House of Assembly for confirmation. February 21, 2018 In "News"