TheWorkPlace Magazine, (TWP) a web-based magazine is set to debut on October 1, 2019. The digital magazine targeted at professionals globally is published with the objective of inspiring, informing and advocating issues that affect workers within the Africa Continent. Speaking on the launch, TWP Editor, Tunde-Success Osideko, said, “Professionals are sure to derive value from reading and digesting the content as part of their professional development plan while organisations will find useful data and insights that can help to improve employee experience and ultimately business performance.” ALSO READ: 10 high points of President Buhari’s speech at UNGA In a release, he added that “The publication is aimed at providing access to homegrown data on Africa workplaces, promoting best practice sharing among African organisations, controlling the Africa narrative by Africa and most importantly promoting the visibility of homegrown innovations.” The magazine has contents curated from over 50 successful Africa professionals including Jimi Tewe, Lanre Olusola, Tomini Oni, Funke Amobi, Jane Ergerton, Adeolu Akinyemi, Korede Asuni, Frank Banda, Niyi Adesanya, Tunde Usidame, Bayo Adekanmbi. Emmanuel Michael, Ogechi Adeola, Harry Akinola, Babatunde Afolabi and Tayo Bamiduro. The magazine explores themes around the workplace, dissecting the different issues on the front burner of employee welfare. It includes sections such as Expert’s view, Professional Diaries, C- Suite Mentoring, HR Clinic, Personal Finance Column and Short Stories. Osideko, is an alumnus of IMD Switzerland, Harvard Business School Executive Education, Anglian Ruskin University, United Kingdom, Gordon Institute of Business Science, South Africa and University of Ibadan, Nigeria. Vanguard CANAL+ GROUP and iROKO are launching a Nollywood app, the iroko+ SVOD service to target over 250 million French-speakers in Africa. February 23, 2016 In "IROKO tv" Africa is a bundle of growth challenges and opportunities. Those who focus on the challenges write off the continent as a “Hopeless Continent” like the Economist Magazine did some years ago. Some, however, focus on the opportunities and see the continent as a rising economic power. June 20, 2011 In "Finance" The ABN Group owners of the prestigious Forbes Africa and CNBC Africa platforms have recently appointed Peace Hyde as its new Head of Digital Media and Strategic Partnerships. September 12, 2017 In "News"