The Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC, Ibrahim Magu on Thursday, September 12, 2019 advised members of the public against being in haste to make money or desire to make it at all cost. He gave the advice as he engaged residents of Kaduna State in a live radio phone-in programme on Nagarta Radio,  Kaduna,  as part of efforts at sensitizing them on the activities and mandate of the Commission. Magu who was represented by the Head, Kaduna Zonal Office, Mailafia Yakubu featured in the station’s popular Hausa programme, “Rana  Mudu Aiki.” Responding to his listeners, Magu cleared the air on the size of recoveries in terms of money and properties the Kaduna Zone has so far made. He further explained to the public how the zonal office can be reached for complains; the types of cases the Commission handles, the many facets of internet fraud and synergy between the Commission and the courts. He charged parents and guardians to monitor the activities of their children and wards, especially as trends show that youth are easy recruits for fraudulent activities. Listeners who phoned in thanked and expressed support for the Commission, urging other agencies of government and Nigerians to collaborate with the EFCC in its effort to rescue the country from the grips of corruption. Vanguard The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC Acting chairman, Ibrahim Magu has commended Mr. Adamu Dan Musa, the Commission’s head of operations in Kano Zonal Office, who led a team that recovered over $9.8million from the residence of a former Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC,… February 11, 2017 In "News" A former Attorney-General of Ebonyi, Mr Benjamin Igwenyi, said the Presidency was undermining checks and balances principle by insisting that Ibrahim Magu remained Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Chairman. July 7, 2017 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, Wednesday disavowed the brother of former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Ibanga, claims saying he had never met him nor spoken with him directly or through a third party. November 2, 2016 In "News"