Pastor Enoch Adeboye, the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), on Sunday, called on Nigerians to support the military and other security agencies with prayers in their task of addressing security challenges in the country. Reports have it that Adeboye made the call at his monthly telecast message, with the theme “Our True Shield and Defence”, via the church’s television at the Redemption Camp, Ogun State. NAN also reports that the prayer for the security agencies was coming against the backdrop of the spate of kidnapping, banditry and insurgency in the country. The military has been at the forefront of quelling the Boko Haram insurgency ravaging the North-East, while insecurity in other parts of the country is also being tackled. Adeboye expressed concern over the feelings by a section of Nigerians that the security agencies were not doing enough to curtail insecurity, saying that they were doing their best. Also read: Fulfulde language to be introduced in school curriculum He, however, said that Nigerians should acknowledge the fact that the security operatives too had their limitations which could also have an adverse effect on their operations. The general overseer chided those who were in the habit of criticising the military, adding that they should rather pray for them to be able to curtail insecurity so that the country could be at peace. “Some of us, all we know is to criticise the military, but we need to know that they too are human beings like us and they have their limitations. What we should do is to continue to pray for them so that they can record success in their operations,” Adeboye said. The renowned cleric said that God was about to deal with the invincible enemies of Nigeria. NAN reports that the new calendar year of the church begins today. Vanguard Lagos—The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adeboye has urged Nigerians to pray for and cooperate with the Nigeria Police Force in its efforts to curb lingering security challenges in the country. July 6, 2015 In "News" GENERAL Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG, World wide Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, yesterday charged all Nigerian security operatives, including military personnel to put themselves under the protection of the Almighty God because of the sensitive nature of their jobs. February 6, 2017 In "News" WORRIED by the spate of violent crimes across the country, General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church Of God, RCCG, Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, Tuesday, led 13 eminent gospel preachers, for a three-hour intensive intercessory prayers for the peace of the nation at the church’s Redemption Camp. February 18, 2018 In "News"