The Speaker, House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila, has visited Katsina State to access the level of insecurity with a view to finding lasting solutions. Gbajabiamila disclosed this on Monday when he visited Katsina State Governor, Aminu Masari. “We are here to see what is happening on the ground, discuss with the governor and proffer possible solutions to the problems. “Nigeria is one country, a state alone cannot deal with this, there must be something which we can do to assist. He said that no one can assist the state by just seeing reports in the media. “We have been to Zamfara and Borno States, the situation is almost the same everywhere we go. “The issue of kidnappers is the major problem here, though things have now subsided because the governor has done so much,’’ he said. Responding, Masari said that the porosity nature of the nation’s borders also contributes to the level of insecurity challenges in the country. He said that drug abuse and trafficking was mostly accompanied by arms trafficking. “Our legislators need to do some legislation to address the situation otherwise criminals will continue to move from one country to another,’’ he said. He said that the government identified that the bandits were neglected for several years. “It is a signal for us to do the necessary, and what is necessary is education. “We will give the people living at the grassroots good education that will afford them to earn a living by way of learning some trades. “I believe, you cannot be a good cattle rearer without good education,’’ Masari said. (NAN) Vanguard News. Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State have cried out for help to address the lingering insecurity ranging from banditry to kidnapping and others in the state before it spread to other parts of the nation and consume it. September 16, 2019 In "News" Gov Aminu Masari of Katsina State on Thursday said that the State Governments in the Northwest are ready to collaborate with security agents to address insecurity ravaging the zone. August 1, 2019 In "News" Hon. Olubunmi Tunji, a first time member-elect of the House of Representatives (APC, Akoko North-East/Akoko North-West of Ondo States), in this piece, says the preferred candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, was not imposed on members-elect. June 9, 2019 In "News"