Wayne Rooney has tipped Harry Kane to break his England goal-scoring record in the next “two or three years”. Rooney netted 53 times for England during his glittering career as the former Manchester United striker broke Bobby Charlton’s previous record of 49. But Rooney, currently playing for American club DC United before a January move to Derby, believes England captain Kane is on course to knock him from first place soon enough. The Tottenham forward already has 26 England goals at the age of 26 after his scoring spree in the Euro 2020 qualifiers against Bulgaria and Kosovo. READ ALSO: Barcelona sign Brazilian goalkeeper, Neto from Valencia “I never take goals for granted, I love scoring them. Once I got to 35 for England, I could feel the record getting close,” Rooney said on his podcast. “I don’t think it’ll stand for 50 years like Bobby Charlton’s, I think Harry Kane, possibly the next two or three years will (do it). He’s a fantastic goalscorer and his record for England is fantastic. “When I got the record and then went back for my last game I said it would be an honour to go and present him like Bobby Charlton presented me with the golden boot and I’m sure it won’t be before too long.” VANGUARD An emotional Wayne Rooney became England's all-time leading goal-scorer after netting his 50th international goal in a historic 2-0 victory over Switzerland at Wembley in a Euro 2016 qualifier on Tuesday. September 9, 2015 In "News" Harry Kane has backed Wayne Rooney to set a record that will never be broken after the England striker passed Bobby Charlton's historic mark with his 50th international goal. Rooney took over from Charlton as England's all-time leading goal-scorer when he slammed an 84th minute penalty high into the net… September 9, 2015 In "News" Wayne Rooney became England's most capped outfield player when he was awarded his 116th cap by new manager Sam Allardyce in Sunday's opening 2018 World Cup qualifier away to Slovakia. September 4, 2016 In "Sports"