Ex-Super Eagles coach, Samson Siasia needs urgent help as he is gradually sliding into depression according to Sports Journalist Godwin Enakhena. Also an ex-international, he is facing a very trying period as he did not only get a life ban from football but also has his mother being held hostage by kidnappers. Enakhena took to Instagram to share a recent conversation he had with the silver winning Olympics coach. He wrote, “Samson Siasia said to me this morning “Godwin, I am not fine. I have not been fine since July and Aug. I don’t know if I will ever be…”. Siasia’s mom is still with her kidnappers and the police have told him the guys have not been traced because they’re using thuraya satellite phones. A negotiator has also been taken in with the money he took to the kidnappers. Siasia is also fighting a life ban by FIFA from football. He’s gradually sliding into depression. Help Siasia now!”   Samson Siasia said to me this morning “Godwin, I am not fine. I have not been fine since July and Aug. I don’t know if I will ever be…”. Siasia’s mom is still with her kidnappers and the police have told him the guys have not been traced because they’re using thuraya satellite phones. A negotiator has also been taken in with the money he took to the kidnappers. Siasia is also fighting a life ban by FIFA from football. He’s gradually sliding into depression. Help Siasia now! A post shared by  Godwin Enakhena (@godwin_enakhena) on Sep 24, 2019 at 12:49pm PDT His 79-year-old mother, Beauty Ogere, was kidnapped on July 5th. On August 25th, world football governing body, FIFA, banned him for life after he was found guilty of match-fixing. VANGUARD Former Confederation of African tennis, CAT, president, Chuka Momoh says former Malian coach, Stephen Keshi and former U-23 handler, Samson Siasia are equally worthy to handle the senior national team,the Super Eagles. October 9, 2010 In "Sports" Former Super Eagles coach, Samson Siasia, has denied any wrongdoing in the allegations of bribery and match manipulations levelled against him by world football body, FIFA. August 16, 2019 In "News" Fifa By Anthony Ogbonna FIFA has banned Nigeria’s former Super Eagles Coach, Samson Siasia for life over bribery and manipulation of matches at the international level, in violation of the FIFA Code of Ethics. In addition to being banned from all football related activity for life, Siasia was also handed… August 16, 2019 In "News"