Enugu State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmad Abdurrahman, has cautioned parents and guardians not to allow their wards and children to be used in truncating existing peace in the state.  The warning is contained in a statement issued by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Ebere Amaraizu, on Friday in Enugu. The statement said that there had been intelligent information that there was a plan by some youth under the aegis of Enugu North Youth to organize a protest in the state. According to the statement, the protest by Enugu North Youth is to take place on Saturday, Sept. 28, within Nsukka metropolis and its environs. “The Command wishes to inform members of the public particularly law-abiding citizens of the state that its attention has been drawn through intelligence information gathered on the planned protest by some youth in Nsukka. “To this end, the State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ahmad Abdurrahman, is advising parents and guardians not to allow their children or wards to be used to truncate the existing peace in the state. “Just as suspected hoodlums could take advantage of the protest to wreak havoc on the lives and property of law-abiding citizens of Nsukka and its environs. “Security operatives of the Command working in partnership with sister security agencies and relevant stakeholders have been directed to fish out those in this habit and bring them to book,’’ it said. It said that the Command enjoined the youth to be law-abiding, while members of the public should go about their normal lawful businesses within Nsukka and its environs. Source: NAN Vanguard News ALL private and mission schools in Anambra State would remain closed today in obedience to the sit-at-home directive by the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB. May 30, 2017 In "blog" THE anti-fuel subsidy removal strike in Enugu State was partially observed by civil servants and those in the private sector, following the state government’s ban on public assemblies, meetings and procession until further notice. January 10, 2012 In "News" Biafra Day anniversary celebration turned bloody, yesterday, in South-East states as soldiers and policemen clashed with pro-Biafra groups. May 31, 2016 In "Headlines"