Smartphone brand, Infinix Nigeria Mobility, has given its staff a surprise entertainment with the hosting of afro-pop superstar, Davido, at their Lagos office. Davido whose surprise visit gave a brightly coloured ambience to the Infinix office environment is the mobile phone company’s Brand Ambassador. He held talks with the management of the company on how his partnership with the brand empowers more Nigerians. READ ALSO: Funke Akindele launches Dettol’s newly commissioned hand wash site at Mushin market Infinix describes itself as a trend-setting smartphone brand, maintaining an undisputable profile for empowering its youthful and tech-savvy target audience, and that partnering with Davido who is a highly Influential personality in the music industry is a perfect fit. The company claimed that the cohesive partnership has since inception, served to inspire and empower young adults within their scope of influence, both locally and globally. The company said that a typical example of an initiative from both entities geared towards empowering youths and supporting youth creativity is the recently concluded #Infinixblowmymind challenge that saw winners go home with a total cash prize of 500,000 Naira and other amazing branded gifts. Davido who was unveiled as Infinix mobility brand ambassador last year hailed the staff of the company for hard work, chatted and took selfies with them to show appreciation. VANGUARD Leading smartphone brand in Nigeria, Infinix Mobile had announced prolific Nigerian music artiste, David Adedeji Adeleke, aka Davido, as its brand ambassador at a colorful ceremony which took place in Lagos, recently. May 10, 2018 In "News" In what look like a sign of humility and commitments to always identify with the brand he had vowed to promote as brand ambassador, Nigerian music sensation and Infinix brand Ambassador, David Adeleke, aka Davido, recently, visited the popular 3C Hub, one of the infinix authorized retail store located in… August 23, 2018 In "News" The mobile market in recent time has witnessed an influx of various phone brands, but neither of the high-tech companies has reached their goals in the Nigerian marketplace. However, Infinix Mobility has marked its entry with a significant turning point in the telecommunication ecosystem. Recently, in collaboration with Google, Infinix… September 7, 2015 In "Business"