The candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) in Bayelsa State for the November 16, governorship election, Senator Douye Diri, has again called for unity among members of the party to achieve victory at the poll. He particularly urged all those who contested the PDP primaries with him and still feeling aggrieved to sheath their swords and support him in the collective interest of the party. Diri, who spoke at an interactive session with journalists in Yenagoa at the Press Centre, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Bayelsa State council, said he has been reaching out to aggrieved members and that many of them have started working with him. “Out of the 21 of us, I emerged through the indirect primaries. Yes, some persons felt aggrieved, we have been talking with them. Most of the aspirants are now working with us except for one or two, whom we are also engaging. “We need to build consensus, we need to build unity within the PDP. I am well prepared for this office and I have come with a lot of experience. This is a PDP state, we are confident we will win,” Diri said. On his plans for the state if elected, he said his administration would build new independent power plants to tackle the power problem in the state. “It is on record that the electricity problem in Bayelsa was not caused by the state government. It is simply the failure of the Federal Government and the private owners. “But I can assure you that we will look inwards and follow the footsteps of late Melford Okilo to build new IPP. “I know the restoration government has also made a lot of investment in the existing power plants. “We have the gas here, so, we will seize that opportunity.” The PDP candidate assured the civil servants of good welfare package adding that his administration will not joke with training and retraining to enhance their capacities. Diri, who was former Commissioner for youths and sports, said he would give priority to sporting activities and build new facilities across the 8 local government areas. “As a commissioner then under Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, the profile of the state rose significantly in sporting activities. “We did it then and with even focus on our areas of comparative advantage like wrestling and swimming, we will even excel. “I have a blueprint for sports development too. We must engage our youths through sports,” he said.  Vanguard News IT is less than three months to the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. With the conclusion of the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and All Progressives Congress, APC, political gladiators in the major parties are set for an epic battle for the control the state. September 6, 2019 In "News" STAKEHOLDERS and former ward chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Bayelsa State have condemned verbal attacks on the Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District, Mr Lawrence Ewrujakpo following his earlier choice by Governor Seriake Dickson as the running mate to the party’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri. September 16, 2019 In "News" Senator Douye Diri has emerged as the candidate of the People's Democratic Party, PDP for the November 16 governorship election. September 4, 2019 In "News"