Afro-pop music singer, Innocent Idibia, a.k.a 2Baba has expressed his displeasure with the manner of shamelessness African politicians  conduct themselves. While urging politicians to continue in their shamelessness because they would soon be held responsible for their actions in government, he noted that the entire educational system in Africa needs urgent overhauling. “The shamelessness among African politicians is becoming too shameful. You people should continue, you all would be held responsible for your actions soon. Our entire education and value system needs to change in Africa”, he wrote on his twitter page. Breaking: Leave us alone, face Nigeria’s security problems – IMN tells FG(Opens in a new browser tab) Reacting to 2Baba’s comment, a fan stated that though the singer had spoken well, but he should have played his part by partaking in the 2017 peaceful protest which he later pulled out from. “You’ve spoken well sir, but if you would have came out for that protest things might have changed by now. Nelson Mandela was not scared see where his bravery has lead South Africa to”, to which 2Baba responded saying; “You can start it too my guy. who was Nelson Mandela before the struggle? And what do you think has actually changed in South Africa.” He added; “I’m tired of some idiots coming here to to talk about cancelling protest. Those of you that are not cowards, what have you done.” Vanguard When Afro-pop music legend, Innocent Ujah Idibia, a.k.a 2Face, now fondly called 2Baba, began his solo music career in 1999, after his exit from Plantashun Boyz, he probably had the slightest idea if the light of fame would shine on him at all. May 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" Afro-pop music legend, Innocent Idibia, a.k.a 2Face, now fondly called ‘2Baba’, has shared his dissatisfaction with how Africans value themselves and their heritage. April 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigerian singer, Dammy Krane, has declared that he wishes  to be as successful as popular afro-pop musician, Innocent Idibia, a.k.a ‘2Baba’. November 15, 2018 In "Music"