By Femi Bolaji Jalingo—Tears flowed uncontrollably, yesterday, at Our Lady Queen of Peace Cathedral, Jalingo, Taraba State, when the Catholic community buried Rev Fr David Tanko, who was murdered and burnt by gunmen last week. The 42-year-old cleric, who was the presiding priest of St. Peters Parish, Ahmadu, met his death at Kpankufu village, between Kasuan Haske and Tortse, while returning from a peace meeting to resolve the ongoing feud between the Tiv and Jukuns in the state. The Bishop of Catholic Diocese, Jalingo, Most Rev. Charles Hammawa, who presided over the mass for his final interment, described the deceased as a lover of peace, who paid the supreme price with his life in the most inhuman way. According to him, “we are only strengthened and comforted by our Christian faith of surrendering all things to God our faith in the resurrection of the dead and life everlasting. “Fr David was part of the peace efforts initiated by me the Bishop of the Diocese of Jalingo to help in bringing an end to the fight between the Tiv and Jukun. “He was a good man, a good priest, diligent, hardworking, amiable and peaceful. He never sets out to offend anyone and was also a prayerful person. Catholic bishops decry insecurity in Nigeria(Opens in a new browser tab) “He is the kind of person Nigeria needs to come out of the quagmire and mess we  are in today. A person who will serve selflessly without any bias. “I am convinced that he is already with God in heaven and interceding for us and for the end of hostilities, violence and unwanted killings. “May his death signal the beginning of the end of all this ugly and despicable human acts.” Speaking further, Bishop Hammawa charged government at all levels to be alive in their statutory responsibility of the protection of lives and properties. Vanguard Tears flowed uncontrollably Tuesday, at Our Lady Queen Of Peace Cathedral, Jalingo, when the Catholic Community in Taraba state buried Fr David Tanko who was gruesomely murdered and burnt by gunmen last week. September 3, 2019 In "News" Tears flowed uncontrollably Tuesday, at Our Lady Queen Of Peace Cathedral, Jalingo, when the Catholic Community in Taraba state buried Fr David Tanko who was gruesomely murdered and burnt by gunmen last week. September 3, 2019 In "News" A Catholic priest with St Peters Catholic Parish, Ahmadu, in Southern Taraba zone, Rev Fr. David Tanko was on Wednesday killed by unknown gunmen. August 29, 2019 In "News"