Two doctors with Federal Medical Centre, Asaba, have appeared before the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria Tribunal, to answer charges of gross professional negligence. The doctors, Iyiola Adewale and Adigba Onodjohwoyovwe, are accused of gross professional negligence which led to the death of a patient in their care. Tribunal: Don’t panic, Uzodinma urges Imolites(Opens in a new browser tab) The prosecuting counsel, Mr Nasiru Aliyu, told the tribunal on Monday in Asaba that the defendants while on duty on March 7, 2017, negligently handled one of their patients, a pregnant woman, Mrs Rita Uchebuego, now late. According to the prosecutor, they allegedly failed to attend to her as appropriate for the management of her condition. Aliyu said the offence is punishable under section 16 of the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act. However, the defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. Chairman of the tribunal, Prof. Abba Hassan, adjourned the case till Sept. 24, for address. Over 5,000 get free medical care in Plateau council(Opens in a new browser tab) News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the tribunal was established for trial of offences under the medical and dental practitioners act. This is the tribunal’s third session in 2019, and had already convicted some doctors during its second session for professional misconduct.(NAN). Vanguard Chief Medical Director of Federal Medical Centre, FMC, Lokoja, Kogi State, Dr. Gbadebo Eleshin, yesterday, said the centre would appeal the suspension of four of its doctors by the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. September 11, 2014 In "News" A senior investigative officer at the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB, Mr. James Akpala, on Monday, admitted that the charge against the suspended Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen, was filed before his team concluded investigation on the allegation that he falsely declared his assets. March 18, 2019 In "Law & Human Rights" In an uncommon combination of decades of immeasurable experience, both authors undertook a scholarly exposition of key ethical and legal issues in medical practice in Nigeria. The book is also a product of their work as chairman and Legal Assessor respectively, of the Nigerian Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal,… January 24, 2019 In "The Arts"