The candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 23, 2019, presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has finally spoken to Nigerians weeks after the Presidential election Tribunal quashed his claims and evidence against President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Atiku who accused Buhari and APC of rigging the election, commended Nigerians for their unflinching support, noting that nothing good comes easy in Nigeria. He admonished Nigerians to be strong and patience, saying that he would appeal the case at the Supreme court. Atiku equally seek more support from Nigerians, noting that the country must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to Freedom of Speech and Freedom after the Speech, are guaranteed. Read the full statement below: A Message of Gratitude to Nigerians For Your Support on This Necessary Journey. Dearly beloved citizens of Nigeria, I write to personally thank you for your support for our shared common goal and the solidarity I enjoyed from all walks of life and every strata of society, right from July 21, 2018, when I informed you, the good people of Nigeria, that I would contest the 2019 Presidential election, to Wednesday, September 11, 2019, when the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal rendered its verdict. Anambra Assembly wants FG to make Air Peace National Carrier(Opens in a new browser tab) Nothing good comes easy, and hard as the task to rid Nigeria from the forces of fascism, and be an instrument for the full restoration of the rule of law and democracy in Nigeria is, your support makes the struggle worthwhile. I owe so much to this great land of Nigeria that took me from the streets of Jada, where I sold firewood, to the heights I have attained, by God’s benevolence, in the civil service, in corporate Nigeria, and in public service. If I do not play my part in making it possible for other orphaned children, indigent youths and the less privileged, to replicate and even surpass my path to significance, I would have failed my Maker. If I do not ensure that the ladder I climbed remains accessible to those at the bottom, middle and top tiers of society, I would not have fulfilled my purpose. And only by ensuring that democracy is not just done, but seen to be done, can Nigeria and Nigerians have a sense that this our dear land is indeed a land where Unity, Faith, Peace and Progress reside. It is for this, and other patriotic reasons, that I am pursuing this judicial route: To ensure that the votes of Nigerians count and are counted. Yes, those who do not want this as Nigeria’s reality, will use every trick in the book to undermine, discourage, misinform and mislead, but with God’s help and the support of Nigerians, we will ensure that Nigeria makes a course correction away from tyranny and towards democracy. Speaks on Freedom We must return to being Africa’s bastion of democracy, where the rights to Freedom of Speech and Freedom after the Speech, are guaranteed. We must stand together to pursue this just cause all the way so that our judiciary is not afraid to do their jobs and have to be wary of blackmail, intimidation, and victimisation. Presidency insists, Buhari won 2019 polls, faults NDI, IRI reports(Opens in a new browser tab) I note the immense outpouring of goodwill from ordinary Nigerians in every nook and cranny of Nigeria and from all regions, religions and relationships. Once again I thank you all for your support. I also thank the governors elected on the platform of my party, the Peoples Democratic Party, as well as the National Executive Committee, for their unanimous and unambiguous support for the judicial phase of this struggle, especially after it was announced that we would go on to appeal. Charges Nigerians to contribute I urge all Nigerians to continue their support for this recourse to constitutional order via the courts. Even if there is little or nothing you can do to ensure that justice is done in Nigeria, just believe that it will happen. Let us never underestimate the effect of our belief in Nigeria. Finally, I say to all concerned, that we will all die and give an account of our lives to our Creator. Thank you and may God bless Nigeria. Vanguard A few weeks after the ruling All Progressives Congress,  APC,  urged the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal to dismiss his suit challenging the declaration of President Muhammadu Buhari as winner of the February 23 election,  candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has described the party as home… May 2, 2019 In "News" The Imo state 2019 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC,  yesterday, said that President Muhammadu Buhari, was able to defeat Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party,  PDP, at the Presidential election because he  was  massively voted into power by Nigerians at the poll. September 12, 2019 In "News" As the All Progressives Congress, APC, questions the citizenship of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, so does the social media aide to President Muhammadu Buhari, Mrs Lauretta Onochie accuses him of planning to destabilize the peace of the country. April 15, 2019 In "News"