Uzoma Day Omenka, manager of legendary reggae star, Majekodunmi Fashek, popularly known as Majek Fashek has confirmed the report broken by Vanguard on Saturday that indeed the singer is gravelly ill and receiving treatment at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in London, England. According to Omenka, Majeks became gravelly ill last month and was rushed to London on August 24, 2019 after a brief admission at a Lagos hospital. He said a notable Nigerian known for his philanthropic gestures has undertaken to take care of his medical bill but does not wish to have his name revealed. He mentioned Captain Hosa, Hon. E.J. Agbonayinma, Amaju Pinnick as some of those who have also rendered helping hands. “Although, his medical bill for the surgery has been taken care by this notable Nigerian. I don’t want to mention his name, but we have serious issues with day to day upkeep. As I speak to you, Majeks cannot eat and cannot talk, I have to do virtually everything for him. Right now, we are in dire need of finance to survive here in London. We spend a lot of money every day to keep him alive. I have approached the Nigerian Embassy here but they abandoned us to our fate. Majeks has not eaten in days and the only food he can eat has to be specially prepared,” Omenka said. “The truth is, we are stranded here. We are in great debt and we need help urgently if we don’t want this icon to die,” he added. Here are some videos of the iconic reggae star arriving the hospital in an ambulance and on his sick bed.
For anyone willing to help, the manager has released this London account number and telephone numbers for whoever wants to reach him for help
Telephone: +1 682-246-6621
+44 7448 512502
Account: Uzoma Day Omenka. Barclays Bank 30260762202947  Veteran Reggae musician, Majekodunmi Fasheke,  known as Majek Fashek aka 'The Rainmaker' has been hospitalised in a London hospital for an unknown but serious illness and may need financial assistance to pull through. September 7, 2019 In "Entertainment" For berating reggae maestro, Majek Fashek with reckless abandon on Tuesday, for performing at Commonwealth of Zion Assembly’s Christmas Concert, popular radio presenter, Ifedayo Olarinde, also known as ‘Daddy Freeze, incurred the wrath of Majek’s manager, Omenka Uzoma Day, who threatened  to deal with him if he ever dares to repeat such a… December 23, 2017 In "Entertainment" As count down to the celebration of his 30 years on stage which is scheduled to hold on the 10th of September, 2017, begins, the world acclaimed rainmaker, Majek Fashek has bragged of his credibility as an international singer whose music is still relevant anywhere in the world. August 26, 2017 In "Entertainment"