 Mr. Nnamdi Arum, the Director of Climate Change, Enugu State Ministry of Environment, has urged Nigerians to embrace the culture of tree planting as an effective erosion control measure. In an interview with NAN in Enugu on Wednesday, Arum gave the advice. According to him, the planting of trees reduces flooding, prevent erosion and serve as windbreakers in an environment. He urged government at all levels, groups, and individuals to support the tree planting awareness campaign across the states of the federation. Breaking: Presidential Tribunal throws out INEC’s objection to Atiku’s petition “It is very important to create public awareness on tree planting to ensure the erosion-free environment, especially in flood and erosion-prone communities in Nigeria. “People living in flood and erosion-prone areas should develop the habit of planting and replacing of trees when they are cut down in their environment. “The effort will go a long way to protect such erosion and flood-prone areas,’’ the environmentalist said. He said that tree planting also helped to reduce the effect of the buildup of carbon iv oxide in the air as well as prevent wind from the destruction of property. “Trees serve as windbreakers in an environment where heavy wind can cause damage to buildings and other property. “They provide shade for us and prevent the direct impact of sun rays on the human body,” Arum said. He called on Nigerians, particularly those living in erosion-prone regions, to increase the awareness on tree planting to ensure a healthy environment. He added that this will go a long way to reduce flooding and erosion. THE Anambra state government has concluded plans to plant one million trees in the state as part of efforts to curb the menacing effects of gully erosion in the state. August 31, 2016 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode on Thursday cautioned residents of the State to desist from indiscriminate and uncontrolled felling of trees, just as he harped on the benefits of tree planting to healthy environment. July 14, 2016 In "News" ENUGU- THE people of Greater Okpanku communities in Aninri Local Government Area of Enugu State recently trooped out en masse  to plant trees against desertification and other forms of climate change. August 22, 2018 In "News"