EMPLOYERS in the Chemical and Non-Metallic Products  sector, are seeking for collaboration between workers and employers on industrial relations issues to ensure job security, growth and survival. Executive Secretary of the Chemical and Non-Metallic Products Employers Federation, CANMPEF, Mr Femi Oke, in an address, posited that industrial relations practice must create a partnership model that would build peaceful co-existence at workplace. According to Oke, the country was experiencing low manufacturing growth due to economic instability and only a positive Industrial relations environment that could enhance job performance and develop the company. He argued that the result of the low manufacturing growth on companies would include among others staff redundancy, reduction in capacity utilisation, closure of companies among others. Establish database for missing persons in Nigeria – Ojukwu(Opens in a new browser tab) ‘The Executive Secretary said: “The manufacturing sector is supposed to be a huge employer of labour but statistics shows that it’s Gross Domestic Product rate dropped from 6.21 per cent in the first quarter  of 2014 to 2.01 per cent in 2019 first quarter.” He contended that the slow economic growth rate was caused by poor infrastructure, poor consumer purchasing power, ban on some raw materials and multiple taxation by government and it’s agencies. Mr. Oke said ‘’The employers and employees need to collaborate to promote positive Industrial relations environment if both parties must continue to exist. There is the need for the union to collaborate with employers by promoting good work ethics such as dedication, commitment, honesty and teamwork for effective productivity.” He added that workers must be competent and ensure success was achieved as it was the only way a positive industrial relations environment could enhance the performance of an organisation. Similarly, Chairman, National Joint Industrial Council, NJIC, Mr Femi Adekunle, called for innovation through teamwork to achieve objectives of an organisation. He insisted that labour must move away from it’s adversarial role to that of cooperation and collaboration to find joint solutions to problems of the industry Vanguard THE 26th Annual Nationwide Industrial Relations Seminar of the National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees, NUCFRLANMPE, that took place in the ancient city of Benin, Edo State, few days ago, was not only educative, but also provided an avenue for stakeholders in the sector and… August 31, 2017 In "News" THE 28th annual Industrial Relations Seminar of the National Union of Chemical, Footwear, Rubber, Leather and Non-Metallic Products Employees, NUCFLRANMPE, took place in the ancient city of Ado Ekiti, Ekite State few days ago. September 5, 2019 In "News" THOUGH the Federal Government has been trumpeting its ease of doing business policy, but for organised labour in the Chemical and Non-Metallic Products sub-sector of the nation’s economy, unfriendly policies have been frustrating the sector thereby undermining job security and welfare of workers in the sector. September 6, 2018 In "News"