United Kingdom Prime Minister, Boris Johnson’s decision to suspend Parliament was unlawful, the Supreme Court has ruled. Mr Johnson suspended or prorogued Parliament for five weeks earlier this month, but judges said it was wrong to stop MPs carrying out duties in the run-up to Brexit on 31 October. Supreme Court president Lady Hale said, “the effect on the fundamentals of democracy was extreme.” The PM said he “profoundly disagreed” with the ruling but would “respect” it. A raft of MPs have now called for the prime minister to resign and some say they will attempt to force him out if he does not go of his accord. Mr Johnson insisted he wanted to outline his government’s policies in a Queen’s Speech on 14 October and to do that, Parliament must be prorogued and a new session started. But critics said he was trying to stop MPs scrutinising his Brexit plans and the suspension was far longer than necessary. During a speech in New York, the PM said he “refused to be deterred” from getting on with “an exciting and dynamic domestic agenda”, and to do that he would need a Queen’s Speech. The court ruling does not prevent him from proroguing again in order to hold one, as long as it does not stop Parliament from carrying out its duties “without reasonable justification”. A No 10 source said the Supreme Court had “made a serious mistake in extending its reach to these political matters”, and had “made it clear that its reasons [were] connected to the Parliamentary disputes over, and timetable for” Brexit. But Lady Hale emphasised in the ruling that the case was “not about when and on what terms” the UK left the EU – it was about the decision to suspend Parliament. [Source: BBC] Vanguard News Nigeria. THE process of suspension of parliament can only be described as a coup, albeit one without the use of tanks and guns, the entire matter was pre-planned and unconstitutional. August 30, 2019 In "News" THE process of suspension of parliament can only be described as a coup, albeit one without the use of tanks and guns, the entire matter was pre-planned and unconstitutional. Boris Johnson is acting contrary to all norms of transparency, decency, democracy and good governance, and contrary to the constitution which… August 30, 2019 In "News" Prime Minister Boris Johnson's decision to suspend parliament from mid-September until October 14 -- just two weeks before Britain is set to leave the EU -- has been called a "constitutional outrage" by critics. August 28, 2019 In "Foreign"