The Nigeria Female President Initiative, NFPI, a pro-democracy group, has countered the position of South-South governors on Federal Government nominees for appointment into various positions on the Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. A statement by NFPI Coordinator, Mr. Felix Akpoyibo, questioned the rationale behind the governors’ opposition to the nominations, describing same as unwholesome, selfish and opposed to the well-being of the people of the Niger Delta region where the governors, over the years, have strangulated the NDDC from carrying out its mandate. The group pointed out that President Muhammadu Buhari has the constitutional right to nominate board members to any federal agency such as the NDDC with or without considering inputs of the governors. Akpoyibo saluted the courage of Governor  Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State, in refusing to identify with other governors of the region that are opposed to Buhari’s nominations for NDDC Board. Hijrah: Pray for peace, security in Nigeria, council boss urges Muslims(Opens in a new browser tab) His words: “NDDC is not a local government council where governors control funds. President Buhari’s choice of the nominees was done in good faith for the interest and development of the ordinary people of the region. “Gone are the days of PDP when South-South governors dictated who becomes what in NDDC and expect returns on investment from their choice nominees.” He urged the presidency not to budge over the NDDC nominees and encouraged the National Assembly to go ahead with screening and clearing the various nominees without fear or favour. Vanguard GOVERNORS from the Niger Delta States and indigenes of the region have been asked to eschew unnecessary rivalry and politics against the nominees of the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC. September 1, 2019 In "News" Delta State-based Nigeria Female President Initiative, NFPI, has called on the Federal Government to leave no stone unturned in the investigation of the gang of assassins/cultists that has confessed to the killing of over 11 people in Kwara State. May 17, 2018 In "News" By Judith Ufford VANGUARD Newspapers paved the way when it organised the first everÂ  South-South: One Voice summit for the Niger Delta region In Port- Harcourt, Rivers State. Since then various groups and leaders and players in the region have boughtÂ  into this vision. For example, the gathering of Niger… July 8, 2009 In "Special Report"