 The Federal Government has appealed to Nigerians not to attack South African companies operating in Nigeria in retaliation for the ongoing xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. In a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, described as deeply disturbing the reports that some Nigerians, angered by the xenophobic attacks in South Africa, have started attacking South African companies in Nigeria. He said that targetting South African companies in Nigeria for attack is, for Nigerians, a classic case of cutting off your nose to spite your face, because the investors in such companies, especially MTN and Shoprite, are Nigerians. Xenophobia: Reps ready to take action, say enough is enough-Doguwa, House Leader(Opens in a new browser tab) Alhaji Mohammed said the majority of the workers in the South African companies operating in Nigeria are also Nigerians, meaning that its Nigerian workers who will be hardest hit if such companies are forced to shut down for fear of attacks. He assured Nigerians that the Federal Government is already taking decisive measures to put an end to the persistent xenophobic attacks against Nigerians in South Africa. ”President Muhammadu Buhari has dispatched a Special Envoy to convey to his South African counterpart, President Cyril Ramaphosa, his concerns and also interact with his South African counterpart on the situation. ”Also, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama, acting on the instruction of Mr. President, has summoned the South African High Commissioner to Nigeria to get a brief on the situation; express Nigeria’s displeasure over the treatment of her citizens; and secure assurance of the safety of their lives and property,” the Minister said. Vanguard The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said Nigeria will deploy ‘cultural diplomacy’ as an effective tool to put an end to the incessant xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. May 13, 2017 In "News" Angry Nigerians, yesterday, stormed the South African High Commission in Abuja, threatening to shut down South African companies in Nigeria over xenophobic attacks against foreigners in South Africa, including Nigerians. April 21, 2015 In "Headlines" Delta State Government and the state Police Command, yesterday, aborted moves by members of the National Association of Nigeria Students, NANS, Zone B, to attack Shoprite and other companies with South African interest in the South-South and South-East regions. March 3, 2017 In "News"