The Imo state Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and the All Progressives Congress, APC, have disagreed as the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, closed it’s case at the governorship election tribunal sitting in Owerri, leaving the evidence brought by the APC, candidate, Hope Uzodinma, and that of the police,  unchallenged against governor Emeka Ihedioha, of the PDP. Vanguard, contacted the legal adviser to the PDP, Jerry Egemba, over the report to know whether INEC, has accepted those evidence presented at the tribunal. Egemba quickly said: “It is not true that INEC, has accepted the evidence presented by Hope Uzodinma and the Police, I tell you INEC, has objected to those evidence both in the tribunal and in the open.” Also responding, for that of APC, the legal adviser, Cyprain Akaolisa, said that INEC, has “conceded” on the matter regarding it’s failure to come up with any witness to challenge the results evidence said to have been omitted in the original results of the elections. Akpabio dissociates self from bribery allegation against tribunal judges(Opens in a new browser tab) According to Akaolisa, “INEC is suppose to call their witnesses  but INEC refused to call any witness and closed their case and therefore leaving that evidence unchallenged by INEC, it will not be right to say INEC, has accepted but for the fact they did not call evidence they have conceded. “The use of the word accepted is different from the use of the word conceded. So, what it means is that ,INEC, has not contradicted the evidence presented to the tribunal of the 388 polling unit results that are now the issue. The serial numbers which fall in the same materials which the INEC, distributed.” It will be recalled that the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Owerri, has admitted results in 388 polling units alleged to have been omitted by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, during the governorship election of March 9th, 2019, which produced  Ihedioha of the, PDP, a winner. The 2019 governorship candidate of the ,APC,  Hope Uzodinma, (Petitioner) who was led to the witness box  by his counsel, Olusola Oke SAN, tendered the results before the tribunal which were accepted as exhibit by the tribunal. Uzodinma claimed was that the said March 9th 2019 governorship election results  not included in the results declared were that of Ngor Okpala, Oguta, Obowo, Ikeduru, Oru East, Oru West, Oguta, Ohaji/Egbema among others.” Also, the governorship election tribunal also admitted in evidence the 366 polling units results alleged to have been excluded from the 2019 Imo state governorship final results that saw the declaration of Ihedioha of the ,PDP, winner of the election in the state. The evidence was tendered before the tribunal by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP, Rabiu Huseini, incharge of operations in Imo state, during the elections. Vanguard The Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Owerri, has admitted results in 388 polling units alleged to have been omitted by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, during the governorship election of March 9th, 2019, which produced Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, a winner. July 18, 2019 In "News" The Imo state 2019 governorship candidate of the Action Alliance, AA, Uche Nwosu, Monday, said that wrong results were used to declare Emeka Ihedioha of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, winner of the guber election. August 19, 2019 In "News" The governorship election tribunal sitting in Owerri, Imo State, has admitted in evidence, the 366 polling units results alleged to have been excluded from the governorship final results that saw the declaration of Emeka Ihedioha of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, winner of the election in the state. August 2, 2019 In "News"