 The board’s Spokesman, Dr Fabian Benjamin said on Tuesday that the aim was to ensure the biometric and other necessary details of a candidate were captured, to check examination malpractice. Benjamin said in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos that the call was necessary now that registration for the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) had begun. “The JAMB will, during the 2020 registration exercise, use the National Identity Number (NIN) generated after successful registration with the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). “This includes the capturing of biometric and other necessary details for the registration of all prospective candidates. “Candidates are enjoined to register as the board will no longer be responsible for the capturing of candidates’ biometrics ahead of the examination, as all information required will be uploaded from the data captured by the NIMC. UNICEF hands over 22 renovated PHCs to Bauchi Govt “Henceforth, the NIN will be compulsory for the UTME registration,” Benjamin said. According to Benjamin, the board has made adequate arrangement with the NIMC for prospective candidates to be registered at the examination centres or with its licensed agents. He said  that for such candidates who had registered and had acquired the NIN before attaining the age of 16, they would be required to update their NIN registration status before registering for the UTME. “In case a candidate lost or misplaced his NIN, the candidate can retrieve it by either going to the NIMC office; its licensed agent or dial *346# (USSD code on the SIM card number earlier used to register for the NIN). “Candidate’s name as stated on the NIMC data base will be the same as the one on JAMB’s data registration form,” he said. Vanguard News The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says any candidate that cannot be identified through biometrics will be barred from writing the ongoing Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). March 11, 2018 In "News" The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says it will revalidate the biometrics of all candidates who have participated in its examination in the last 10 years. July 7, 2019 In "News" The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) says it will revalidate the biometrics of all candidates who have participated in its examination in the last 10 years. July 7, 2019 In "News"