The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday said having reviewed the video of the media interview by the Minister for Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, President Muhammadu Buhari should immediately vacate his seat following the alleged  admission that he (Buhari) does not possess a West African Examination Council, WAEC, certificate, “contrary to his claims and disposition before the law.” The party stated on Sunday in a press conference addressed by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan. According to the publicity scribe, the PDP “mocks the Buhari Presidency for pushing out the video wherein the Minister pleaded with Nigerians to pardon President Buhari over his false WAEC certificate claims. “PDP notes the deliberate ploy of Alhaji Lai Mohammed to appeal to sentiments, seeing that Mr President had failed to defend himself before the Presidential petition tribunal. “The party berates the Buhari Presidency for believing that in pushing the video into the public space, it could influence the mind of the tribunal to bend the law after solid evidence have been presented before it against President Buhari.” The text of the press conference further stated: “The PDP holds that the pronouncement and appeal for pardon issued by the government’s spokesperson, who is also a lawyer, is a direct guilt plea, which cannot save President Buhari from the course of justice in this matter. “From the official pronouncement by the Minister on a national television, it is no longer in dispute before all Nigerians that President Buhari does not possess the educational certificate he claimed in the affidavit he deposed to in his Presidential nomination form. “In this latest shenanigan, President Buhari and his handlers ought to have known that the law, which the judiciary is bound to uphold, is a respecter of no man. “The PDP reminds President Buhari of how his Presidency vehemently applied the law in similar circumstance to remove a head of an arm of government; a situation, which renders his plea for pardon a complete nullity before the law. “The PDP holds that if President Buhari indeed seeks for pardon from Nigerians, he should do the needful by toeing the path of honour and vacating the Presidential seat without further delay. “It is disheartening that President Buhari and his All Progressives Congress, APC, would put our nation through the troubles of legal hassles when they knew all the while that they were building something on nothing.” Vanguard  The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has dared President Muhammadu Buhari to tender his West African Examination Council, WAEC, certificate, before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal instead of allowing his campaign spokesperson, Festus Keyamo, to insult the sensibility of Nigerians by saying the certificate was needed by anyone to become the… April 15, 2019 In "News" A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has dismissed a piece of news being circulated by the APC to portray General Muhammadu Buhari as having a West African School Certificate (WASC). Frank who was reacting to a media report,… September 8, 2019 In "News" ABUJA— Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has dared President Muhammadu Buhari to tender his West African Examinations Council, WAEC, certificate, before the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal instead of allowing his campaign spokesperson, Festus Keyamo, to insult the sensibility of Nigerians by saying that certificate was not needed by anyone to become… April 16, 2019 In "News"