As part of its quest to bring financial empowerment to the fore, AXA Mansard Pensions Limited, a pension fund administrator, has charged all Nigerians on the need to plan in earnest towards retirement in order to avoid old age poverty. Speaking to newsmen recently, the Chief Executive Officer of AXA Mansard Pensions, Dapo Akisanya, gave the charge while emphasising the importance of discussing the topic of retirement planning. Akinsanya said, “Old age is one of the neglected themes of our society. Everyone is aware of it, everyone knows it will happen one day, but it is still one of those topics many shy away from. Regardless of how we shy away from it though, we will all get old. Therefore, there is no need to avoid the topic or bury one’s head in the sand.” He said that older people are more vulnerable, and also face a higher probability of living in poverty, adding that the world is experiencing improved life expectancy and an ageing population, which means the proportion of older people continues to rise. Obaseki assures on protecting young girls, women, vulnerable people(Opens in a new browser tab) He said, “Many times, with old age comes a decline in capacity for work and, therefore, income-earning ability. This is coupled with potentially higher expenditure on health care and other essential services, increasing the likelihood of older people becoming and remaining poor. Older people are particularly vulnerable to the effects of economic change, and those without savings, assets, or the capacity to generate income, are among the least able to withstand economic shocks. Vanguard It is best to start saving for retirement when one is young. With moderate contributions set aside monthly, one can save for retirement and avoid carrying a heavy financial burden in old age. Young people have an excellent opportunity to start building up their retirement fund from their youth rather… September 18, 2017 In "Business" Mansard Insurance plc, a member of AXA Group has announced the completion of its acquisition of 60 per cent of Penman Pensions Limited in a move aimed at consolidating the insurer’s position as one of Nigeria’s leading non bank financial services groups. January 28, 2015 In "Insurance and You" AXA Mansard Insurance, member of the AXA Group, has taken its social investment programme to educating members of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, on different solutions available for their financial security, health and general well-being. February 19, 2018 In "Business"