The Edo State Command of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has deployed its personnel around the forests in Igueben area of Edo State where two its men were on Friday afternoon kidnapped by suspected kidnappers.  Public Relations Officer of NSCDC state Command, Efosa Ogbebor told Vanguard yesterday that want to ensure that their personnel are released unhurt. He said “It is an unfortunate situation but we have deployed our men to comb the forest and ensure that the two of them are released unhurt.”  The officers identified as Francis Okunwe the Area Commander of the Edo North Area Command who is an Assistant Corps of the NSCDC and the Divisional Officer of Irrua, Chief Superintended of Corps (CSC) Albert Eguavoen were on their way to Benin City but because of the bad state of the Benin-Auchi-Okenne Highway, they decided to travel through Igueben and they were said to have been attacked at Ewosaa before Ekpon near Ebele in Igueben local government area. The incident was said to have occurred around 2 pm on Friday and sources from Edo North area said the Toyota Sienna van they were traveling in has been recovered from where it was abandoned.
A source said “The kidnapped officers were on their way to Benin but because of the bad state of portions along the Auchi – Benin road, they decided to pass through Igueben to cut off the bad spots but unfortunately the incident happened around Ewossa before Ekpon when the incident happened”  The Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Mohammed confirmed the incident to Vanguard and said a combined operation of security agencies in the state were being out in place to apprehend the abductors.
As at the time of filing this report, Vanguard could not confirm whether the kidnappers have opened contact with the family of the victims.  Vanguard News By Alemma-Ozioruva Aliu, Benin The menace of kidnapping in Edo State took a dangerous dimension yesterday as suspected kidnappers abducted two senior officers of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on their way to Benin city, the state capital from Edo north.   The two officers were identified… September 28, 2019 In "Crime Alert" Muslim in Benin on Wednesday observed Eid prayers to mark the end of the holy month of Ramadan under heavy security. Security was provided by officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the Police and the Nigerian Army. The security personnel were particularly visible inside and around… July 6, 2016 In "News" Commandant General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Muhammadu, has directed the immediate deployment of 10,000 personnel to Edo, ahead of the September 10 governorship election in the state. September 2, 2016 In "News"