Popular celebrity stylist and fashion mogul, Toyin Lawani, recently took to social media to talk about her life and how she was betrayed by those she helped out. In a lengthy Instagram post, the serial entrepreneur revealed what she has witnessed in the hands of those she helped out in the past. Toyin Lawani added that there was a time she cared about what others thought of her. She also noted that she continued to help people despite the way she was treated by those she helped. “Sitting and thinking how karma is truly real. Let’s be careful out there, how we treat people is very important. When you put people down for no reason, God might retaliate in a terrible way to teach you a lesson. There are some battles you don’t need to fight, kneel to God and pray, cry if you may. Toyin Lawani continued: “He will fight your battles for you in a way you never even expected. Life is a lesson, we all won’t make it out alive, keep helping people, keep letting the world misunderstand you. I have helped so many people who end up soiling my name today. I have bought cars/jeeps for at least 5 people, they know themselves. “I have rented houses for people; few of them still end up spoiling my name today or imitating my business which they still don’t get right. Well the world is big enough for all of us. If you tell me I will even help you, I have put my soul into helping a small business grow into the biggest today and I’m still being called names. Never stop helping no matter what you get back,” Toyin Lawani wrote. Vanguard It is a common saying in the political terrain that there are no permanent friends or enemies, only permanent interests. With recent happenings in the entertainment industry, it seems the above phrase has also found truism in the world of art. June 20, 2015 In "Entertainment" Self-acclaimed highest paid sex therapy in Nigeria, Hauwa Saidu Mohammed popularly known as Jaaruma of Jaaruma Empire has taken up the challenge thrown by serial beauty and fashion entrepreneur, Toyin Lawani that anyone seeking to have a date with her must first pay her N2 milloion naira by paying the… August 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" Though it had not come as a big surprise, still everyone was thoroughly miffed and disappointed when Toyin announced that she was pregnant. There was no doubt that she planned to keep the baby, otherwise, the announcement of the pregnancy would not have taken place. She would have found a… August 1, 2015 In "News"