The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) Friday sealed houses of two Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) top officials. Amaju Pinnick, president of the NFF and second vice president, Shehu Dikko are the two officials whose houses were affected by the fresh ICPC investigation report. Announcing the development on its Twitter page, ICPC said it has placed Pinnick’s and Dikko’s houses under investigation. Pinnick’s affected mansion property is located in Park View Estate, Lagos while Dikko’s house is located on 1, River Benue Close, Maitama, Abuja ICPC does make public the reason behind its action but judging from the #hashtags used along with the published statement on Twitter, #DoTheRightThing, it could have been due to corruption allegations.   Mr Pinnick and Mr Dikko, as well as and three other officials of the federation are expected to appear before a Federal High Court in Abuja on September 26 over alleged diversion of FIFA grants. While commenting on the development, the spokesperson of the ICPC, Raheedat Okoduwa said; ” the houses were sealed by the agency after fresh evidence of corruption against the NFF bigwigs emerged” She, however, refrained from giving much details on the matter. According to her, the development is under investigation and therefore may lead to her leaking information concerning others on the list if the ICPC fresh investigations. OPERATIVES of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, yesterday, raided the Abuja home of immediate past Comptroller-General of the Nigeria Customs Service, Abdullahi Inde Dikko, in search of cash and other suspected items. The former CGC is said to have presided over an organisation, which is believed to have generated… January 9, 2016 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent an open letter to President Muhammadu Buhari urging him to use his good offices and leadership position “to urgently refer the allegations of corruption against the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Babachir David Lawal to the Economic and Financial… January 29, 2017 In "News" A Joint Inter-Agency Team, led by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has arrested 37 officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) for allegedly extorting money from motorists on Nigerian highways. August 20, 2019 In "News"