The Niger State Police Command has arrested 62 political thugs during the just concluded APC party primaries for allegedly attacking innocent residents. The APC conducted its primary elections for aspirants for the positions of Chairmen and councilors for the forthcoming Nov. 30 council polls in the state. Alhaji Adamu Usman, the State Commissioner of Police, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna on Sunday that the suspects were from five local government areas. ”Paikoro Local Government Area, 44; Rijau Local Government Area, 4; Tafa Local Government Area, 10; Katcha Local Government Area, 2; and Rafi Local Government Area, 2,” the Commissioner said. He explained that one Toyota vehicle with dangerous weapons, such as machetes, daggers, and knives were recovered from some of the suspects. The Commissioner said that the suspects would be charged to court for unlawful assembly, disturbance of public peace, being in possession of dangerous weapons and for sponsoring thuggery in accordance with the Niger State Anti-Thuggery law. Usman warned politicians, especially those seeking elective positions, against sponsoring political violence during and after the local government elections in the state. He said that the command was committed to providing a peaceful atmosphere for the conduct of a free, fair and credible election across the state. Vanguard -THE Force Headquarters, Saturday night, paraded four persons arrested in an Abuja hotel with result sheets of last week's ward congress in Imo State. May 12, 2018 In "News" Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo Tension is mounting in different parts of Akwa Ibom State particularly Akwa Ibom Northwest as Saturday, February, 23 the new date fixed for the presidential and National Assembly elections draws closer. The tension is against the background of fears of the pre-election attacks on INEC offices… February 20, 2019 In "News" The All Progressives Congress, APC, in Bayelsa State, weekend, lauded the Joint Task Force, JTF, over the report released on the violence that rocked the cancelled rescheduled election in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of the state, saying that the report has vindicated the party. December 14, 2015 In "News"