A vote of no confidence in the government aimed at replacing Boris Johnson as prime minister could be held next week, a senior SNP MP has said. Stewart Hosie told the BBC such a move may be the only way of avoiding a no-deal Brexit on 31 October. SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon hinted on Friday she might back Jeremy Corbyn becoming a “caretaker” prime minister. The Liberal Democrats have, however, said the Labour leader is too divisive a figure to play such a role. Mr Johnson has arrived in Manchester ahead of the opening of the Conservative Party Conference on Sunday. He is expected to tell delegates that only a Tory government will deliver on the result of the 2016 EU referendum. MPs have refused to back the prime minister’s demand for a snap general election until no deal is taken off the table. Mr Hosie said there was growing concern that Mr Johnson may find a way of circumventing the so-called “Benn Bill” which requires him to seek an extension to the UK’s departure date if no deal has been agreed. The aim of a no-confidence vote would be to install an interim prime minister who would secure a short Brexit delay and then call a general election. “We have to do that because there is now no confidence that the prime minister will obey the law and seek the extension that Parliament voted for only a few weeks ago,” he told the Today programme. “If we are serious about the extension that is the only game in town.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Jeremy Corbyn urged anti-Boris Johnson MPs to make him Britain's caretaker prime minister to avoid a no-deal Brexit -- but his proposal met with a mixed response on Thursday. The Labour main opposition leader said once in power, he would seek to delay Britain's October 31 exit date from the… August 15, 2019 In "Foreign" THE process of suspension of parliament can only be described as a coup, albeit one without the use of tanks and guns, the entire matter was pre-planned and unconstitutional. August 30, 2019 In "News" British Prime Minister Boris Johnson sparked fury Wednesday among pro-Europeans and MPs opposed to a no-deal Brexit by successfully seeking the suspension of parliament weeks before Britain's EU departure date. August 28, 2019 In "News"