ABUJA—The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, has approached the Federal High Court in Abuja for permission to confiscate the sum of N840million it allegedly traced to a proxy bank account that was operated by a retired President of the Benue State Customary Court of Appeal, Mrs. Margaret Igbeta. In an exparte motion it filed for an order of interim forfeiture of the fund, ICPC, alleged that the retired Judge, had while in service, lodged huge sums of money in the fixed deposit account she operated in the name of her maid. Supreme Court strikes out perjury suit against Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) It told the court that funds the ex-Benue State Customary Court President lodged into the account that was domiciled in Ecobank Plc, accumulated about N870, 321, 492.15 between 2008 and 2019. The Commission said the order it sought from the court would stop Mrs. Igbeta, from accessing the money “alleged to have been obtained through fraudulent activities in the course of her official duties”. A statement that was signed by Spokesperson for the Commission, Mrs. Rasheedat Okoduwa, disclosed that the interim forfeiture application was brought against the ex-Judge, pursuant to Section 48 (1), (2) and (3) (a) and (b) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000 and Section 6 (6)(a) of the 1999 Constitution, as amended. Controversy trails seized property, cash of E-Money, late kidnap kingpin(Opens in a new browser tab) “The retired President of the Customary Court of Appeal was accused of operating a proxy fixed deposit account in the name of her maid, one Theodora Atsu, with Ecobank Plc, where she accumulated N870, 321, 492.15 between 2008 and 2019. “She was said to have opened the account with her passport and the name of Atsu on the 5th of March, 2008, with an initial deposit of N8 million. “She subsequently made several other huge deposits including N123, 745, 925.57 and N5 million, in the months of March and May, 2008. “It was also noted by the Commission that the money was far above her legitimate earnings both as a judge and President of the Customary Court of Appeal within the period that the account was operated and would have used to meet the infrastructural needs of the citizens and development of the nation. “ICPC therefore prayed the court to grant the order in the interest of the nation”, the statement added. Vanguard The Abuja Division of the Federal High Court, yesterday, froze six separate bank accounts that were linked to the former Governor of Zamfara State, Abdulazeez Yari, following an ex-parte motion  filed by the Federal Government. August 17, 2019 In "News" The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), has arraigned the Director of Finance in the Police Service Commission (PSC), Mr. Emmanuel Ibe, over alleged mismanagement of N11, 750, 000 belonging to PSC. February 23, 2017 In "News" ABUJA—A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has ordered Independent Corrupt Practices and  other related Offences Commission, ICPC, to unfreeze the account of Pinnacle Communications Ltd, a firm the Federal Government engaged to implement the transition from analogue to digital terrestrial television broadcasting in Nigeria. December 17, 2018 In "News"