President Muhammadu Buhari has arrived in Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, to attend the ECOWAS Extraordinary Summit on Counter Terrosism. A statement from the Media office of the State House, Abuja, said the President was received on arrival at the Ouagadougou International Airport by President Roch Kabore of Burkina Faso, on Saturday. ”Also at the airport to receive the President were the Nigerian Ambassador to Burkina Faso, Ramatu Ahmed, Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, Defence Minister, Bashir Magashi and the National Security Adviser to the President, retired Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno. Insecurity: Army, other security agencies told to synergise(Opens in a new browser tab) Others at the airport included the Director General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufai Abubakar, Executive Secretary of Lake Chad Basin Commission, Ambassador Nuhu Mamman and members of the Nigerian Community in Burkina Faso. According to the statement, the summit by ECOWAS leaders and leaders from Chad, Cameroon and Mauritania is expected to adopt an action plan to address the spread of terrorism and violent extremism in the region. The Nigerian leader is expected to address the Summit where he will renew his call for West African leaders “to strive to provide the necessary resources and tools” for regional initiatives such as Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF) and the G5 Sahel Joint Force to lead the war on terrorism and trans-border crimes across the region. Ghana, Togo and Benin on alert against jihadist threat(Opens in a new browser tab) President Buhari is expected back in Abuja at the end of the Summit.(NAN) Vanguard PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari is expected to leave Abuja on Saturday to attend the one-day Economic Community of West African States, ECOWAS, Heads of State and Government Extraordinary Summit on Counter-Terrorism, in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. September 13, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari and Abia State governor, Dr  Okezie Ikpeazu, will be in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, for the ECOWAS Extraordinary Terrorism Summit holding Friday, 13th to Saturday, Sunday 14th September, 2019. September 12, 2019 In "News" President Goodluck Jonathan has arrived in Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, for talks aimed at quickening the resolution of the current political crisis in that country. November 5, 2014 In "News"