Private school owners have appealed to the government to take steps that will improve the economy and boost the purchasing power of the citizens. A cross section of school owners who spoke to Vanguard, said the poor economic situation in the country is telling on their business, as many parents and guardians are now finding it difficult to pay their wards’ school fees. British man on benefits reveals ‘no intention’ of getting job(Opens in a new browser tab) The school proprietors, who cut across many locations in Lagos, added that the inability of parents to pay their children’s fees is increasing the number of out-of-school children in the country, as the existing public schools cannot accommodate all. Mrs Kelechi Okafor of Nodos International School, noted that if not for the ingenuity of school owners, many would have closed down by now. She added that while school owners had evolved plans to make payment of fees convenient for parents, people losing their jobs daily was compounding the problem. Mrs Fatima Eze of Gainsville Children Academy, noted that poor payment of fees was hindering the growth of private schools, as many basic things would still be purchased with or without payment of fees by parents. She charged the government to also see private school owners as partners in the delivery of quality education to Nigerian children. Declare state of emergency on security now, PDP tells Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) Mrs Amella Agulanna of Rock Foundation Montessori Children School called on the government to hasten work on the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, saying heavy trucks were now passing through inner streets and putting the lives of pupils and people in danger. She noted that many school proprietors were ready to empathise with parents concerning the current economic situation in the country, but that some were in the habit of jumping from one school to the other because of debts they owe. Vanguard As the economic recession triggers a new type of migration of students from private to public school, some school owners have resolved to give 50 percent discounts to any parent who pays for a whole session, as against paying for a term. This is as some parents keep mounting pressure… September 22, 2016 In "Education" AS school children resume from the long vacation, Vanguard investigations revealed that parents have commenced withdrawing their children from private schools to public ones, attributing their action to the harsh economic situation in the country. September 21, 2016 In "News" Crisis is brewing between parents of pupils in Private secondary schools, owners of the schools in Ondo state and the state government over the extension of the implementation of the Residency card otherwise known as “Kaadi Igbeayo” to private schools across the state. They are kicking against state government somersaulting… February 12, 2016 In "News"