In a strategic move to deepen market penetration and improve customer service, Nigeria’s broadband communication service provider, VDT Communications Limited has opened a Customer Experience Center for customers on its 4G Lte Advanced internet Services .   Why Nigeria should lead Africa in 5G adoption — GSMA(Opens in a new browser tab) Addressing guests at the formal opening of the centre, the Managing Director and CEO, VDT Communications, Mr. Abiodun Omoniyi noted that, “By the opening of the experience center, VDT Communications has taken its customer service a notch higher; offering a platform to showcase its customers-centric disposition and friendly attitude aimed at always adding value and keeping the customers delighted”. Omoniyi also said that, “This is just one of such experience center to be opened in strategic areas in Lagos and other parts of Nigeria as our 4G Lte advanced internet coverage expands”. Kcee, MC Galaxy perform as “33” Export unveils limited edition 40th anniversary label(Opens in a new browser tab) According to him, the VDT experience center promises to offer a holistic and total premium experience for  after-sales services. to customers. Commending the management of VDT Communications for professional approach at providing quality services, the Chairman  of the Board of Commissioners of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Mr. Olabiyi Durojaiye, said: “NCC is poised to collaborate with industry players to grow more local talents in the field of telecom and ICT in general and we are relentless in our determination to identify, train and nurture Nigerian youth to compete with the likes of Bill Gates and  Zuckerbergs  of this world”. Vanguard Broadband communications service provider, VDT communications, says that encouraging more girls to take up careers in the Information and Communications Technology, ICT field would benefit the Nigerian economy immensely. May 16, 2018 In "Technology" Managing Director of VDT limited, Mr Biodun Omoniyi, is a restless man. As a fresh Engineering graduate in 1989, Omoniyi knew he was not cut out to carry files looking for paid employment. His restless nature had sent signals to his membrane that the answer rested in establishing his own… July 3, 2019 In "News" Managing Director of VDT Communications Limited, Mr. Abiodun Omoniyi has said that the internet world is currently experiencing evolution and only a reliable platform can survive it. July 10, 2019 In "News"