The Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), as part of its mandate to improve the ease of doing business in Nigeria, has announced a pre-incorporation and post-incorporation process aimed specifically at  improving the ease of doing business process for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). For the pre-incorporation phase, CAC noted on its website that the following are key features to consider: Users will now have an option to check for conflicting names before making a name reservation to reduce the number of denied name reservations and the attendant costs. Also, users will no longer be directed to the Upload segment of the website but will now be prompted to upload signed incorporation documents as soon as the payment of filing fees and stamp duties are made. In addition, Certificates of Incorporation will now be printed by the accredited user. Lagos urgently needs to mobilize huge investments – Sanwo-Olu(Opens in a new browser tab) The Commission said that for the post-incorporation phase the key requirements are: When a company is incorporated, the portal sends a notification to the company’s registered email prompting it to create online profiles of accredited users who it intends to engage for purposes of its post-incorporation filings. The Company will then enter details of the users and their email addresses. Once this is completed, the accredited user receives an email with login details, which grants them access to the portal to process post-incorporation filings on behalf of that Company. Vanguard The days required for registration of new businesses in Nigeria by the Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, has been reduced from 10 to 2, courtesy of a reform agenda of the Buhari administration. April 24, 2017 In "Business" Those planning to register their companies at the Corporate Affairs Commission, CAC, may experience a little delay as the commission’s official software vendor, Messrs Decision Technology Incorporated of USA, DTI, allegedly shutdown the entire system of the commission paralysing business activities in the commission. September 24, 2014 In "News" The Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) has reiterated its commitment to create enabling environment for businesses to thrive in the country. November 12, 2015 In "News"