Mr Realwan Okpanachi, a constitutional lawyer in Abuja says Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is legitimately entitled to sue any person during his tenure without having to waive his immunity. The lawyer made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Abuja. Okpanachi was reacting to the statement credited to the vice president that he would waive his constitutional immunity to clear his name over the N90 billion he allegedly received from Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). The lawyer said that Section 308 of the Constitution which raises arguments in some quarters that the vice president could not institute any case in his name no longer represent the position of the law. He said the case of I.B.M. Securities Plc. Vs Ahmed Bola Tinubu as decided by the Supreme Court being relied upon by those holding such opinion was no longer tenable. “The current position of the law as expressed by the Supreme Court in the case of Global Excellence Communications Ltd. &Ors.Vs Mr Donald Duke (2007) LPELR-1323(SC). “The apex court held that had the legislature intended to prohibit any of the holders of the offices listed in section 308(1) of the constitution from instituting cases in the names in their tenures. “They would have expressly stated it, and that, since there were no such express provisions, then they are entitled to institute court case during their tenure,’’ Okpanachi said. The legal practitioner added that the only effective way Osinbajo could waive his immunity, “if he sincerely desires to do so is to resign his position as vice president.’’ “He cannot remain in office and waive his immunity as the immunity is attached to that office and not his person,’’ the lawyer said. Okpanachi also dismissed the allegations against the vice president as baseless and orchestrated by a particular opposition party. Vanguard, Nigeria News VICE President Yemi Osinbajo Wednesday said that he was ready to waive aside the immunity conferred on his office to clear any allegation of the case of corruption levelled against him. September 26, 2019 In "News" Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, has declared his readiness to waive his constitutional immunity to “enable the most robust adjudication” of several baseless allegations, insinuation and falsehoods against his person and office. Professor Osinbajo made this declaration in a tweet he personally authored this on Wednesday. ALSO READ: October 1… September 25, 2019 In "News" Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has given the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN, seven (7) days to resign over his flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Public Procurement Act in the approval of N5.8billion as intervention funds for the… November 12, 2018 In "News"