An Igbo Socio-cultural group, Izu Umunna Cultural Association of Nigeria has expressed its support for the ban on the movement of cattle by foot from State to State in the South East of the country and called on all States Houses of Assembly in the region to make necessary laws to back up the move. IPOB replies Miyetti Allah(Opens in a new browser tab) The Association commended the Governors of the respective States in the region for unanimously taking the decision saying such would curb the worsening security situation in the region. According to a communiqué issued at the end of its meeting held on Wednesday in Jos and signed by Dr. Ugo Ihekuna and Barr. Tony Egwuonwu; its President and Secretary respectively, the Association urged the South East Governors to pursue vigorously their intended meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari and the Security Chiefs, and obtain an approval to enable the States integrated local vigilante groups work with Federal Security Agencies in the maintenance of law and order in the region. According the duo, “In our general meeting held on 4th September, 2019 in Jos, Izu Umunna Cultural Association of Nigeria, a Socio-Cultural group and Igbo Think-Tank, deliberated on among other issues, the outcome of the recent meeting of South East Governors Forum held at Enugu and made the following observation/resolutions. “That we commend the unity of purpose exhibited by the South East Governors led by Chief David Umahi of Ebonyi State, that we identify with them on the seriousness with which they viewed the now deteriorating security in the South East Zone. We solidly support the ban on movement of cattle’s by foot from state to state in South East zone and further urge the Governors to cause all State House of Assembly in the zone that have not done so, to pass the anti-grazing and other necessary laws to that effect. Attacking Buhari in Japan‘ll portray Igbo as terrorists –  Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth(Opens in a new browser tab) “That we urge the South East Governors to pursue vigorously their intended meeting with Mr. President and the Security Chiefs, and that they should also in the process obtain an approval similar to that already given to South West region, to enable the State integrated local vigilante groups work with Federal Security Agencies in the maintenance of law and order in the region. “That we laud the interest shown by South East Governors in monitoring the rehabilitation work on Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu by Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the palliative measures on Sam Mbakwe Airport to handle diverted flights. And that they should maintain the pressure on the relevant Agencies to ensure that the jobs are completed before December 2019 as promised. This is necessary in view of the heavy traffic on these airports during the yuletide and New Year.” Vanguard An Igbo socio-political group, Nzuko Umunna, has cautioned the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Alhaji Abubakar Malami (SAN) against the move to re-arrest the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Prince Nnamdi Kanu, saying the IPOB leader has not done anything criminal except exercise his fundamental human… August 31, 2017 In "News" The violence caused by the alleged killing of eight people along the Jos-Mangu Halle highway in Plateau State continued in Angwan Doki area of Bukuru, Jos South Local Government Area, yesterday, resulting in the burning of houses and general disorder. January 10, 2011 In "News" ENUGU- EXCEPT for the controversy generated by the Miyetti-Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria, MACBAN’s proposal for establishment of Fulani Vigilante Group, the South- East Economic Summit which took place in Enugu, last week Thursday, was by every inch a success story. June 26, 2019 In "News"