A former Governor of Cross River State, Mr Donald Duke, has asked a Federal High Court sitting in Lagos to allow him pay the sum of N537,334,360.77 debt he owes Assets Management Company of Nigeria, AMCON. AMCON had on  August 8, 2019, through its counsel, Juliet Reeds, approached the vacation  judge sitting in Lagos to take possession of Duke’s property situated in Ikoyi, Lagos. Aregbesola: Interior minister pledges to build on Dambazau’s legacies(Opens in a new browser tab) At the resumed hearing in the matter, yesterday, a counsel who appeared for the embattled former governor,  Edoigiawerie Omoruyi, informed the trial judge, Justice Nicolas Oweibo, that his client had approached AMCON to have the case settled out o fcourt, and that he had also promised to pay the debt. Counsel to AMCON confirmed that they had been approached for an amicable settlement and to pay the debt, with deadline of September 2, 2019. “In the spirit of trust and fairness, we will concede to an adjournment to enable us finalise the possible settlement,” counsel said. Justice Oweibo, after listening to parties, adjourned the case to September 11, for report of settlement. It will be recalled that the court had on August 8, granted an ex-parte order in favour of AMCON and  United Bank for Africa to take over an Ikoyi, Lagos, property of  former governor, Duke, over an alleged debt of N537,334,360.77 in the  suit. Vanguard A Federal High Court sitting in Lagos has ordered the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, AMCON and United Bank for Africa to take over an Ikoyi, Lagos property of former governor of Cross River State, Mr Donald Duke, over an alleged N537,334,360.77 debt. August 21, 2019 In "News" The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Thursday ordered the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to pay Capital Oil and Gas Industry Limited N26.5 billion as contained in a consent judgment delivered in 2013. October 6, 2016 In "News" Asset  Management Corporation of Nigeria, AMCON, on Monday, released the list of debtors it claimed have failed to negotiate successfully with the corporation. October 24, 2018 In "Business"