Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, yesterday in Lokoja, Kogi State, said high-level poverty, illiteracy and unemployment would continue to threaten participatory democracy in Nigeria. INEC’s Chief Administration Officer, Mr. Tony Ezenmo stated this during the Zonal Training for Electoral Security Personnel for Kogi 2019 Governorship Election. Mr. Ezenmo of INEC, however, noted that elections had become more regular, and competitive because of strong opposition and improved integrity of the electoral process. According to him, “The implication of this is that the culture of election is beginning to take roots in the country as we saw in the victory of the opposition in the 2015 Presidential Election and the acceptance of defeat by an incumbent president. Sometimes, the challenge of electoral insecurity comes largely from undue exploitation of ethnic, religious and communal differences by the political elite. Political elites who deliberately exploit existing social cleavages and fault lines for political advantage are often referred to as conflict entrepreneurs.” Also read: Steer clear of hard drugs, JTF tells military personnel deployed to Niger Delta He said as long as the members of the political class continued to mobilize on the basis of ethnoreligious and communal sentiments and not on the basis of issues, programmes and vision of a society, political conflict and violence would remain enduring features of the country’s political system. Ezenmo added that “Security agencies are mandated by law to harness and deploy their human and material resources to provide a conducive environment for all activities of the Election Managers Boards, EMB, political parties, politicians, the electorate and other stakeholders in all phases of the electoral process. “It is imperative that all security agencies consider the threats and risk factors peculiar to each phase, plan sufficiently and deploy personnel and resources to ensure that all related activities of the electoral process are successful.” INEC says Vanguard By Boluwaji Obahopo, Lokoja  High levels of poverty, illiteracy, and Unemployment will continue to pose threats to democratic elections in the country, INEC has said. The Chief Administration Officer of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mr. Tony Ezenmo stated this known on Tuesday during the Zonal Training for Electoral Security… September 24, 2019 In "News" The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, yesterday, invited the All Progressives Congress, APC, to forward a replacement for Prince Abubakar Audu, its dead candidate in the inconclusive Kogi State governorship election, thereby throwing up fresh legal and political firestorm in the state. November 25, 2015 In "Headlines" Four staff of Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC; a National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, member, and a three-year-old girl died in an accident on Ajaokuta-Lokoja Road on Saturday, an official has confirmed. November 19, 2018 In "Crime Guard"