The Federal Government has debunked the report being circulated on the social media of a bomb explosion at the South African High Commission in Abuja on Saturday, describing the report as fake news, orchestrated by the desperate opposition to cause panic and chaos among the populace. This is contained in a press statement issued on Saturday, by  the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed made available to Sunday Vanguard. The statement said that the video of the purported bomb explosion, which is being circulated on the social media, is that of the bomb explosion at Emab Plaza, near Banex, in Abuja on June 25 2014. The Minister said it is now apparent that the desperate opposition has decided to use fake news and disinformation as handy tools in their avowed determination to make Nigeria ungovernable, having lost woefully at the polls. The statement further reads, ”A pattern is emerging of the antics of the desperate opposition to latch on to the use of fake news and disinformation as a strategy to trigger chaos in the country. FG tells Nigerians to stop acts of aggression against S/Africans, says red line drawn(Opens in a new browser tab) “On Friday (6 Sept 2019), they doctored and circulated the video of my appearance on Channels Television in January 2015 (when I was the spokesman of the APC) to make it look like I was begging Nigerians to forgive President Buhari for not having a school certificate. “Worse still, they posted the video afresh, giving the impression it happened last Thursday and that I acted in my capacity as Minister of Information and Culture. ”Unfortunately for them, this doctored video came out on the same day a report emerged that the PDP had sent lawyers and party agents to the University of Cambridge to confirm the authenticity of the President’s West African school certificate, only to be stunned to discover that not only did the President write the examination, he also passed. ”One would have expected a party that trumpets its belief in the rule of law, a party that challenged the result of the last presidential election in court, to wait patiently for the impending judgement on the issue instead of engaging in underhand tactics and resorting to self help,” Alhaji Mohammed also appealed to Nigerians to be very discerning at this time, and to check the veracity of any information they receive. ”This is just the beginning. Nigerians should expect an explosion of fake news and disinformation in the days and weeks ahead. This is because the desperation of this opposition is alarming. But their strategy will fail, just like every other dubious strategy that they have been employing in their desperate bid to grab power,” he stressed. The Minister warned those behind the orchestrated fake news and disinformation campaign to stop forthwith or be made to face the music. Vanguard The Federal Government has debunked the report being circulated on social media of a bomb explosion at the South African High Commission in Abuja, on Saturday. September 7, 2019 In "News" The Federal Government on Sunday said that it will not relent until it has exposed those behind the fake news phenomenon in the country and bring them to justice. June 4, 2017 In "News" The Federal Government has described as false the information being circulated on the Social Media to the effect that under a purported Ministry of Interior Regulation, all phone calls and Social Media posts made by the citizens are to be monitored and recorded. April 10, 2017 In "News"