The Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGA) says Nigeria has the capacity to produce over 10 trillion litres of ethanol at a competitive price and earn trillions of naira exporting the product. Mr Segun Adewumi, the National President of NCGA made this known in his presentation at the Cassava Africa Expo and conference organised by BKG Exhibitions Nigeria Ltd. on Tuesday in Abuja. He said that the 400 million litres of ethanol that the country uses required only 100,000 hectares of farmlands from the 84 million hectares arable land in Nigeria. “This is to say Nigeria can reduce her import bill on the listed product by N12 trillion. “At the same time, we can earn several trillions of naira in foreign exchange from cassava products,’’ he said. He said that pharmaceutical industries across the world preferred cassava industrial starch to the corn starch being  used. Adewumi said Nigeria uses 1.7 metric tonnes of industrial starch sold at N200, 000 per tonne amounting to N340 billion. The NCGA president estimated industrial items imported by Nigeria derived from cassava to be N1.2 trillion annually. He added that mass production of these derivatives could earn Nigeria over N10 trillion annually. He said that the major challenge of cassava production in Nigeria, which also applied to other crops, showed the country as the most backward nation in agricultural production in the world. “Nigeria is the only country that is left behind in the practice of modern agriculture, food is produced more cheaply even in neighbouring countries than in Nigeria,’’ he said. However, he said that the country needed to address the value chain and stop the three-year circle of glut in cassava market. He said that the country had to ensure regular, adequate and affordable and all year round supply of cassava to the processing factories. Vanguard News Pastor Segun Adewumi, the National President, Nigeria Cassava Growers Association says cassava can generate over N20 trillion for the country, annually if adequately utilised. September 12, 2016 In "News" The Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGA), says Nigeria can save N2 trillion from the importation of wheat, if appropriate measures are put in place to boost cassava cultivation. July 5, 2017 In "News" The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Tuesday, explained why the Federal Government could not arrest sponsors of the quit notice that was previously issued against Igbos residing in the northern part of the country. August 29, 2017 In "Agric"