Following the inauguration of a five-man Joint Security Committee set up by the southeast governors, during their last meeting in Enugu, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, has approved the appointment of the former Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), Mr Aloysius Okorie, as a member of the committee. In a statement by the Secretary to the Enugu State Government, Professor Simon Uchenna Ortuanya, Mr Okorie replaces the retired Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr Ogbonna Onovo, who was recently appointed as Security Consultant to the state government. The statement added that the change became necessary to enable Mr. Onovo, who served as Chairman of Security Ad-hoc Committee, constituted by Gov. Ugwuanyi, alongside 11 other committees for the reform of the state’s Public Service, ample time for the implementation of the committee’s recommendations. Other members of the South East Joint Security Committee, to be located in Enugu State, include, Maj. Gen. Abel Obi Umahi Rtd., (Chairman), Capt. Awa Agwu (Rtd.), CP Ikechukwu Aduba (Rtd.) and Mr. Raymond Nkemdirim. Okorie’s appointment, according to the statement, takes effect from September 2, 2019. Vanguard Following the inauguration of a five-man Joint Security Committee by the South-East Governors, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State has approved the appointment of the former Assistant Inspector-General of Police, AIG, Mr. Aloysius Okorie, as a member of the committee. September 5, 2019 In "News" ENUGU- THE member representing Nsukka/Igbo-Eze South federal constituency in the House of Representatives, Rep Patrick Asadu has commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for taking various proactive and strategic steps that would helped to enhance security of lives and property in Enugu State. September 2, 2019 In "News" The 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria provides that it is the cardinal role of the government to ensure protection of lives and property. This informed the decision of the Governor of Enugu state, His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, to give security sector priority attention in his… August 9, 2019 In "Viewpoint"