The Federal Government, last night dispelled  as fake, the news making the rounds in the social media that some bridges along Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani Road, especially Tatabu Bridge, has collapsed. A statement issued by the Ministry of Works and Housing, clarified that there is no bridge collapse along the route and urged members of the public to disregard any mischievous circulation of old pictures as a recent incident. Kogi Assembly urges FG to reconstruct Federal roads in the state(Opens in a new browser tab) According to statement signed by the Deputy Director, Press, Mr Stephen Kilebi, the Ministry confirmed that all the bridges along the route are in good motorable condition pointing out that the route was very recently traversed to confirm the condition of the bridges. Dispelling the news as unfounded, the Press Release noted that the Federal Controller of Works/Engineer’s Representative in Niger State, Engr. I.F. Umeh, who along with other officers travelled on the road up to the Kwara State border confirmed that, “All the bridges are in good and passable condition. There is no bridge that collapsed along the road. The Tatabu Bridge is intact and in perfect condition”, adding that there is also free vehicular movement along the entire stretch of the road. Thomas Cook passengers applaud staff after final flight lands in UK(Opens in a new browser tab) While advising motorists to ignore any fake news of bridge collapse along the aforementioned road, the Ministry stressed the need for caution, especially by those using the social platform for the dissemination of news pointing out that the circulation of such unconfirmed and fake news concerning an important public utility such as the Jebba-Mokwa-Bokani Road could trigger off a situation that could have grave economic consequences to the nation. Vanguard It is now a difficult moment for transporters, commuters and motorists shuttling between the northern and southern parts of the country through Ilorin-Mokwa-Jebba road. June 17, 2017 In "News" Another bridge has collapsed in Niger State. Consequently, commuters plying the Minna-Bida Road are stranded. August 26, 2018 In "News" THE Corps Marshal of Federal Road Safety, FRSC, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi has commended the Federal Government for the temporary repair on the collapsed Mowo Bridge along Mokwa/Jebba Road. June 11, 2018 In "News"