In a bid to end serial killing of women in Rivers state, Rotary Women in Port Harcourt in partnership with other 70 women groups including African Women in Leadership Organization, AWLO, Rivers state chapter and African Women Lawyers Association, AWLA, Nigeria, Rivers state branch  in the country on Wednesday organised a Peace Walk against serial killing of women in Rivers state. The group demanded justice for the families of female victims who have been murdered by the killers within the state. The walk was a sequel to the alleged recent killing of women in some hotels in Port Harcourt. With the dress code, ‘All Black’ which symbolises fear, mystery, death, evil, and aggression, authority, rebellion among other things, the groups came out en masse to register their grievances in the way to fish out the serial killers in the state. From the premises of the Nigerian Union of Journalist, NUJ at Moscow Road, Port Harcourt where the walk kicked off, the female groups in their numbers went around the city with different inscriptions including “the serial killers who called a woman prostitute should apologize. ” We demand justice and for those victims who have been killed. “We are not saved anymore”, among other things. According to the groups, “Women should not be killed rather they should be protected from the hands of ritual killers and ensure that families of those killed get justice. Vanguard Over 75 women groups in Rivers State, including Federation of Women Lawyers, FIDA, Rotary Club and Nation al Association of Women Journalists, NAWOJ, yesterday protested the repeated killing of women by unknown serial killers in hotel rooms in the state. September 18, 2019 In "News" Irked by the ugly pattern of supposed ritual killings of women in hotels in Port Harcourt,  Rivers Female Youths on Friday protested to the State Police Command,  demanding  stronger measures  to protect women. The Rivers Female Youths  who displayed  placards with different inscriptions decried the obvious  targeting of women by… September 13, 2019 In "News" By Gabriel Olawale Stakeholders have called for a special court for perpetrators of all forms of sexual violence against women in Nigeria. Stating this position at an Awareness Walk on Rape organised by the Partnership for Justice with support from Justice For All (J4A) project of the Department for International… December 2, 2014 In "Health"