The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mr Mohammed Adamu says all activities of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) remained proscribed in line with the Terrorism (Prevention) Proscription Order Notice of July 26. The Force Public Relations Officer (FPRO), DCP Frank Mba disclosed this in a statement on Monday in Abuja. He said all gathering or procession by the group had remained illegal and would be treated as a gathering in the advancement of terrorism. Why Buhari brings back Ministry of Police Affairs, Dingyadi explains in 1st official function(Opens in a new browser tab) Mba said that the attention of the police had been drawn to plans by some members of the proscribed IMN to embark on a nationwide procession. He said the procession is targeted at disrupting public peace, order and security in the country. Mba said that the IGP had directed the Commissioners of Police in all the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to avert any planned procession and/or disruption of public peace by IMN members. He said the IGP had also ordered all supervisory Assistant Inspectors General of Police to put in place concrete measures to prevent the procession. The FPRO said the IGP enjoined the public to avail the police with useful information as regards the activities of the proscribed IMN. He said the IGP also advised parents and guardians to prevail on their children and wards not to be cajoled into embarking on illegal and ill-motivated activities. THE Inspector General of Police, IGP Mohammed Adamu has warned members of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria, IMN, otherwise known as Shiites against embarking on any form of procession in the country, saying the group remained proscribed September 9, 2019 In "News" The Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr Mohammed Adamu said henceforth any protester arrested in connection with the proscribed Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) would be prosecuted under the “Terrorism Act.’’ July 30, 2019 In "News" Group pledged allegiance to foreign countries to destabilise Nigeria. Have set up Para-military outfit 'HURRAS' to terrorize citizens. Carry out imposition of illegal curfews and checkpoints. Kingsley Omonobi and Joe Erunke - Abuja Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu on Tuesday reeled out reasons why the Islamic Movement of Nigeria… July 30, 2019 In "News"