The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has postponed the local government primary election in Ado and Ikole Local Councils over security concern. The party spokesperson, Ade Ajayi who stated this in Ado Ekiti in a telephone conversation with newsmen, on Saturday, said that a new date would be communicated to all stakeholders soon. However some aspirants, their supporters and some delegates have accused the party of plot to impose a particular candidate on the people Two of the aspirants who spoke to newsmen at the venue of the primary including Alhaji Tajudeen Gidado, and Tosin Aluko, accused the leadership of the party of being undemocratic, warning that they would resist any imposition. In her reaction, Mrs Aluko , an aspirant in the election lamented that the leadership of the party were determined to impose a candidate. ” i just heard it here now that the election has been Postponed.  I don’t want to believe it because Governor Kayode Fayemi issue a statement last week that there would be primary election and that there won’t be imposition. “We have been waiting here since morning for the primary. Some people are with the deputy Chairman of the party now, Sola Elesin,  they don’t want the election to hold because of the plan they have to impose one of us as the candidate. ” I don’t know why they are doing this, they should allow people to make their choice because this is democracy. There doing this because they want to impose someone. But the governor they are dropping his name has come out to say he has no preferred candidate.” APC group faults confidence vote passed on Obaseki(Opens in a new browser tab) One of the delegates, Mr Adeyeye Kayode said ” we don’t know why they are postponing the election. The candidates and delegates are here and every where is peaceful. “We have not seen anybody except the police people. Whereas they told us that they are fully prepared for the election. We are now thinking that what we heard that there won’t be election in Ado Ekiti is coming to pass. We are afraid that if we leave here now they might come around 4 pm and do kangaroo election. We should allow people to participate, that is why it is democracy.” An Agent to one of the aspirants,  Babatunde Adesanmi  said “as far as we are concern, we are not aware you are just telling us.  You people can see that the atmosphere here is conducive for any election. I don’t see any reason for the postponement. “The only reason should be if the materials are not available, that is the only reasons or if the atmosphere is not conducive but as you can see the police are here to maintain peace already.” Vanguard ‎Former Senate Deputy Chief Whip between 1999 and 2003, Gbenga Aluko on Sunday accused Governor Ayo Fayose, Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors’ forum of making surreptitious moves to join the All Progressives Congress(APC), having realized that the PDP can’t win the impending election. November 20, 2017 In "Politics" NATIONAL Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Chief John Odigie- Oyegun, yesterday, told members of the party in Ekiti State that President Muhammadu Buhari will not  rig  or  subvert the will of the electorate in the forthcoming governorship election. March 20, 2018 In "News" GOVERNORSHIP aspirants in the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Ekiti State, yesterday, traded blames over the botched primaries on Saturday. May 7, 2018 In "Politics"