A Nigerian real estate firm, Wisdom Kwati City, said it has set aside N6 billion for the commencement of its pilot housing projects in Abuja and Adamawa state. In a statement in Abuja, the company said it has entered into a partnership with five foreign firms and secured the full corporate offer of about $9 billion for the construction of smart city estates across the 36 states of Nigeria and Abuja. The Chief Executive Officer of the Karabow Group, Mr. Wisdom Kwati, disclosed that some indigenous companies had also invested N2 billion into the project so far, adding that the company is set to disburse about $500 million directly to begin work on its sites. Kwati noted that the firm has  secured materials worth N6 billion for the commencement of the pilot projects in Abuja and Adamawa, stressing that the firm has concluded plans to commence construction as soon as the rains cease, hopefully, from September this year. He said, “Currently, for Wisdom Kwati City, we are in partnership with five global firms. We have secured the full corporate  offer for the project worth about $9 billion. Apart from the fact that we have spent N10 billion in securing our land in Lagos, Abuja, Adamawa , Akwa-Ibom, Calabar, and Kaduna, we have most of our engineering drawings on ground also. Meet FCT minister, Muhammad Musa Bello(Opens in a new browser tab) “Most of them are ready for approval in some of the states where we have secured lands. But currently, we are beginning from Abuja and Adamawa state simultaneously. These are pilot projects. In Abuja, we are delivering about 15,000 housing units. We have about 105 hectares of land in Lugbe 1 Extension, just beside River Park and behind Dunamis church. It is just two minutes drive from the airport road. In Adamawa state, we have our land on 50 hectares at Namtari, Numan Road, just after welcome to Yola. “We have secured  materials worth N4 billion for about 100 units of mixed apartments in Abuja. We have also  secured about N2 billion worth of materials for bungalows in Adamawa state.” Vanguard Grenadines Homes Limited, a leading real estate company in Nigeria, has taken another bold move towards boosting home ownership in Nigeria with the formal commencement of the process for the construction of a new set of homes at Katape in Abuja, the nation’s Federal Capital Territory (FCT). September 22, 2014 In "Homes & Property" The Federal Housing Authority (FHA) has sold its housing estate at Obada Oko in Abeokuta, Ogun State to a real estate firm, Provincial and City Properties Limited, for N1.66 billion, about 28 years after construction commenced at the site. March 28, 2010 In "Finance" A Nigerian real estate development firm, Afro-Asia Shelters International, a subsidiary of Chicason Group has signed a real estate development funding agreement worth N44 billion with Shelter Afrique, Africa’s premier real estate development funding institution. June 5, 2016 In "News"