Hail Okowa Tribunal Victory  Chairman, Warri south local government council, Dr Mike Tidi  has  called on Chief Great Ogboru to stop the endless litigations over the last  governorship elections and  contribute his quota to the development of the state by partnering with the state government. A statement signed by the Chairman, Dr Tidi also described the  victory of  governor Ifeanyi Okowa at the election petition tribunal as a clear reaffirmation that the people voted massively for the governor at the general polls. Continuing, he said the  people voted for continuity in human capital and infrastructural development of the government in the state, adding that the spoke loud and clear  with their votes that they were satisfied with the performance record of the governor. Gbajabiamila donates drugs worth N60m to Borno govt(Opens in a new browser tab) On behalf of the people of Warri South local government I celebrate the victory of the performing governor of Delta state, Senator Dr Ifeanyi Okowa at the Election Petition Tribunal. The verdict has again reaffirmed the love of people of the state for the governor. It has again stressed it that the people voted massively for continuity in the area of human and capital development. The road network across the entire state , development in the health, education sectors and all other evidences of good governance across the state are clear testimonies of the performing record of the governor and why Deltans voted for him massively for a second term. See the timely response to fix the failed portion of the Warri-Sapele federal road, our governor truly , development and the common good of Deltans are your guiding rules. Let me also advise the opposition to join hands with the governor to impact positively on our state, no need for the wasteful litigations over an election Deltans spoke clearly and loudly on with their massive votes for the governor. “, he said  A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State, Dr Augustine Uroye has decried Gov. Okowa’s alleged imposition of Comrade Michael Tidi as the party’s candidate for the forthcoming local government election, noting that party’s delegates should be allowed to determine their… September 16, 2017 In "News" THE first Warri Economic Summit with the theme: Warri Rising, ended on a promising note with various speakers urging ethnic groups in Warri to bury their sentiments for the common good of the oil- rich city. May 23, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State on Friday affirmed the candidature of Mr. Michael Tidi for the Chairmanship position in the forthcoming Local Government elections in the State. October 27, 2017 In "News"