President Muhammadu Buhari says the ruling of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal on the February 23, 2019 poll, is victory for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. This is just as Buhari noted that the his victory was never in doubt, knowing that Nigerians did give him the mandate at the poll. A statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Femi Adeshina, explained that Buhari has extended hands of fellowship to aggrieved individuals. “Good conscience fears no evil report. I was unperturbed all along, because I knew Nigerians freely gave us the mandate. We are now vindicated,” the President declares. “He dedicates the victory to God, and to Nigerians, while also commending the judiciary for “dispensing justice without fear or favour.” “President Buhari extends a hand of fellowship to those who had felt aggrieved at the outcome of the election, and went to court, noting that it was within their democratic rights. “Buhari notes, however, that with the pronouncement of the judiciary, “it is time for the country to move forward as one cohesive body, putting behind us all bickering and potential distractions over an election in which Nigerians spoke clearly and resoundingly.” Vanguard  President Muhammadu Buhari has said the verdict of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal is a victory for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. This was made known in a press release statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and… September 11, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has dedicated the victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal Wednesday to God and Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. He stated this in a press release statement made available to reporters by the Special Adviser to the President… September 11, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday said that he was unperturbed ever since the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, filled a suit at the Tribunal to challenge his February 23, victory. September 11, 2019 In "News"