United States President Donald Trump on Friday approved sending American troops to bolster Saudi Arabia’s air defences after the largest-ever attack on the kingdom’s oil facilities, which Washington has squarely blamed on Iran. The Pentagon said the deployment would involve a moderate number of troops – not numbering thousands – and would be primarily defensive in nature. Reuters has previously reported that the Pentagon was considering sending anti-missile batteries, drones and more fighter jets. The United States is also considering keeping an aircraft carrier in the region indefinitely, Reuters reported. “In response to the kingdom’s request, the president has approved the deployment of U.S. forces, which will be defensive in nature and primarily focused on air and missile defence,” US Defense Secretary Mark Esper said at a news briefing. “We will also work to accelerate the delivery of military equipment to the kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UAE to enhance their ability to defend themselves.” Esper added the United Arab Emirates, a close ally that hosts U.S. forces, had also requested assistance, according to Reuters report. The Pentagon’s late Friday announcement appeared to close the door to any imminent decision to wage retaliatory strikes against Iran following the attack, which rattled global markets and exposed major gaps in Saudi Arabia’s air defences. But the deployment could further aggravate Iran, which has responded to previous U.S. troop deployments this year with apprehension. It denies responsibility for the attack on Saudi Arabia as well as attacks on oil tankers earlier this year. Yemen’s Iran-aligned Houthi movement, which has been battling a Saudi-led military coalition that includes the UAE, has claimed responsibility for the strikes. Vanguard Nigeria News. The tensions in the Middle East have escalated following drone attacks on two major oil facilities in Saudi Arabia. While the United States has said there is evidence Iran is linked to the attack. Russian President Vladimir Putin, however, has recommended Russian missile defence for purchase by Saudi Arabia. Putin… September 16, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States believes the attacks that crippled Saudi Arabian oil facilities last weekend originated in southwestern Iran, a United States official told Reuters on Tuesday, an assessment that further increases tension in the Middle East. Three officials, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, said the attacks involved both… September 17, 2019 In "Foreign" Iran has dismissed US accusations that it was responsible for a series of explosive drone attacks on the world’s largest petroleum processing facility in Saudi Arabia that disrupted more than half of the kingdom’s oil output and could affect global supplies. Yemen’s Iran-aligned Houthi rebel group claimed responsibility for launching… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign"