Osun State has emerged the best-performing state in Nigeria in World Bank Project Implementation. The state also emerged the best among the participating states in the country in the Rural Access and Mobility Project 2 (RAMP 2) implementation. This was disclosed by the World Bank Country Director for Nigeria, Africa Region, Rachid Banmessaoud, in a Commendable Performance Letter, addressed to the state government. He said Osun has also been recognised by World Bank Task Team Leaders as a strong performer in project implementation. He commended the high sense of diligence and commitment displayed by the state government which according to him, earned it the award. “This is to appreciate your support and state’s participation in the just concluded Nigeria Portfolio Performance Awards ceremony hosted by the World Bank Country Office in Abuja, and to congratulate you on your state’s commendable performance which led to it winning the best performing state under the Rural Access and Mobility Project 2 (RAMP 2). “Osun has also been recognised by World Bank Task Team Leaders as a strong performer in project implementation. “The event recognised the performance of project implementation teams across the state and federal institutions. Furthermore, state delegates were afforded the opportunity to network and share knowledge with their colleagues from other states. “Consequently, we invite your State Focal Person to the first phase of the FY20 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) which will focus on strengthening the coordination mechanism at the state level to ensure Nigeria meets the FY20 Portfolio Performance Indicator Targets”, Banmessaoud added. Vanguard. At a period when most narratives point to ‘The Recession’ as an excuse for the crippling growth/performance across various governments, the story of the State of Osun presents a refreshing perspective as to how, against all odds, concise people-centered development is possible. January 3, 2017 In "News" At the entrance of the governor’s office on a windy Tuesday morning, I saw a motley crowd of men and women cheering the convoy of the Governor of the State of Osun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola as he snaked through the highway into his office. On the other side of the divide, a… August 13, 2017 In "News" Osun State government efforts on youths empowerment have received a boost, as the state is to benefit from the N50 billion World Bank/ Federal Government youth empowerment fund. October 2, 2011 In "News"