As Nigeria turns 59 tomorrow, the US President Donald Trump, has on Monday congratulated its people, urging them to unify in their quest for peace, unity and success. Trump who disclosed this in a statement opined that he would love to see Boko Haram and other terrorist groups wiped out of Africa. His words, “On behalf of the American people, I extend our warmest greetings and congratulate you on the 59th anniversary of Nigeria’s independence,” the statement read. Khafi announced as co-host of the Future Awards Africa(Opens in a new browser tab) “Nigeria is among our strongest partners in Africa. We share common goals of expanding trade and growing our economic relationship. “We are allies in the global battle against terrorism, and we want to see Boko Haram and ISIS-West Africa driven out of the region and other insurgencies like them dismantled. “The United States welcomes efforts by your administration to diversify opportunities for your talented, creative, and hardworking people to the benefit of both our countries, Africa and the world. “I am pleased that following our meeting last year, our Vice Presidents are also building on our longstanding history of cooperation. “I wish the people of Nigeria continued success as you mark another year of independence.” Vanguard By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja As Nigeria celebrates 59 years of independence on October 1, 2019, the President of the United States of America, USA, Donald Trump, in his congratulatory message, Monday, told President Muhammadu Buhari, to drive out Boko Haram and Islamic State in West Africa Province, ISWAP, from… September 30, 2019 In "News" President Donald Trump of the United States of America, yesterday, warned that his government would not tolerate continued religious killings in Nigeria. May 1, 2018 In "Headlines" What are our cultural values as a Race? Do we as Black people, whether African American or Black African, really support gay rights and gay marriage? Trust our copy cat culture, if Hillary had been elected she would have strengthened the gay marriage lobby and her Supreme Court nominees would… November 9, 2016 In "News"