Saudi Arabia will open its doors to international tourists for the first time under a new visa regime to be announced Friday evening, the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage said. The move is part of the kingdom’s efforts to boost tourism. Riyadh aims to increase international and domestic visits to 100 million a year by 2030. “Opening Saudi Arabia to international tourists is a historic moment for our country,” Ahmad Al-Khateeb, Chairman of the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage, said in a media release on Friday. Saudi Arabia has long been one of the hardest countries for tourists to enter, with visas only granted for short-term business trips, religious pilgrimage, or for travelers with family in the country. Details about the new visa scheme and wider tourism plans will be announced at a gala event on Friday evening (local time) at Ad-Diriyah, a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Riyadh. The ultra-conservative kingdom is on a push to attract holidaymakers as it seeks to diversify the country’s economy and reduce its dependence on oil. The tourism announcement comes less than two weeks after drone attacks targeted two facilities operated by Saudi state oil giant Aramco in the eastern province of Buqyaq, forcing the kingdom to halt about half its oil supplies afterward. Source: NAN Vanguard News Saudi Arabia yesterday ignored protests by the Nigerian government over the deportation of female pilgrims to the holyland as the Saudi authorities deported another batch of 510 Nigerian female pilgrims to this year’s hajj. 171 pilgrims had earlier been deported on Wednesday. September 28, 2012 In "News" The Federal Government has cautioned Muslim pilgrims against taking banned substances to Saudi Arabia, as an inaugural flight of intending pilgrims for 2019 Hajj exercise took off yesterday. July 11, 2019 In "News" All is now set for the inaugural flight to Saudi Arabia signaling the commencement of airlift Nigerian pilgrims for the 2018 Hajj rites in the holy land. This is coming one week after the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia commenced its Hajj season. July 20, 2018 In "News"