The wife of vice president, Dolapo Osinbajo, on Saturday, appealed to women to be prayerful and learn to take all their worries to the Lord in prayers for answers. Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo also called on women to pray fervently for the girl-child against societal ills. Dolapo Osinbajo made the call at the 49th Benue Women in Prayer (BEWIP), Prayer Convocation, held at the Chapel of Grace, Government House, Makurdi. She also urged women to take the act of motherhood seriously to mitigate the growing cases of indecent dressing, drug abuse and other social ills in the country. Reading from the Book of Psalm 24:6 – 10, Mrs Osinbajo admitted that though women had individual challenges with constant prayers, God would always answer them if they fervently sought His face. The VP’s wife gave three prayer points to the women: prayer for Nigeria, prayer for Nigerians and prayer for the family. Gov. Samuel Ortom, in his remarks at the event, commended the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, for standing by the state in its trying times. Ortom further disclosed that over 60 security personnel lost their lives while ensuring that there was peace in the state during the herders’ crisis. According to him, those who lost their lives during the crisis cut across soldiers, police and civil defence personnel. He commended the security agencies for the sacrifices they made in ensuring the peace and unity of Benue. Earlier, Mrs Eunice Ortom, said Benue Women in Prayer (BEWIP), Prayer Convocation, started on the 15th October 2018, adding that the prayer session has helped many youths. She said that the programme has also helped many youths to improve on their music careers while many had launched several musical albums and other gained skills. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mrs Osinbajo had earlier inaugurated Mama Abyol Children’s Home and Benue Centre for Enterprise Development and Innovation (BENCEDI). The centre is the product of the Federal Government support, Benue State Government counterpart funding and partnership with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The programme high point includes seven skills acquisition namely: Information and Communication Technology, hairdressing and cosmetology, confectionery, shoemaking and leatherwork, fashion design and accessories, tie and dye, and traditional cloth weaving. Vanguard The wife of vice president, Dolapo Osinbajo, on Saturday, appealed to women to be prayerful and learn to take all their worries to the Lord in prayers for answers. Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo also called on women to pray fervently for the girl-child against societal ills. Dolapo Osinbajo made the call… September 14, 2019 In "News" Wife of the Vice President, Pastor Dolapo Osinbajo has urged Nigerian women to take good care of their health in other to reap the reward of their answered prayers in good health. November 19, 2015 In "Health" WIFE of the Vice President, Mrs. Dolapo Osinbajo, yesterday urged Nigerian women to take their rightful place by venturing into the political affairs of the country, insisting that women could not afford to hand over the lives and destinies of their children to unfaithful politicians. August 3, 2018 In "News"