Ethnomedicine is the study of different cultural approaches to health, disease, and illness. It is the use of nature in local healing systems for easy and quick cure straight from mother nature, plants. Plants have the miraculous treasure of numerous compounds with abilities to cure diseases and make immunity strong, however, The role of ethnomedicine in modern drug discovery is just as unappreciated as the plants involved in their practice. According to WHO fact sheet 2008, about 80% of the population in Asia and Africa depend on plant-derived traditional medicine, therefore; more attention should be focused on the valuable information that is relayed over generations of traditional healers. Drug-like activities of plants or plant products, including antiviral activity, have been attributed to the secondary metabolites of plants, mainly alkaloids, flavonoids, saponins, quines, terpenes, lignans, tannins, polysaccharides, a steroidal glycoside, thiosulfates, proanthocyanidin, and proteins. Plant-derived Natural Health Product (NHPs) are used worldwide for disease prevention and healing in ethnomedicine practices in humans. compounds in plants often are secondary metabolites and are also known as natural products. Plants such as bitter Kola contains vitamins and minerals such as Vitamins A, C, E, B1, B2, B3, fiber, calcium, potassium, and iron, also carry other antioxidants. It increases sex drive and serves as an active anti-malaria agent amongst all other benefits. Ginger and Tumeric Both have also been used to help relieve pain, decrease nausea, and enhance immune function to help protect against illness and infection. Its medicinal properties are mostly due to the presence of phenolic compounds, including gingerol, a chemical thought to possess potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. Some others with medicinal values include bitter leaf, pawpaw, both leaf and fruit, kola nut, cucumber amongst all others. Research has shown that Herbal medicine asks a lot but gives the practitioner more in return. vanguard  Hippocrates, the father of medicine, stated, “Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food”. I find it amazing that even as far back as 400 BC (and most certainly even farther back) ancient healers, like Hippocrates, clearly understood the importance and even potency of food and its direct… February 5, 2013 In "Health" Determined to encourage scientific-based indigenous natural medicine, the Nigeria Institute of Medical Research, NIMR, and PaxHerbals have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with PaxHerbals to achieve research continuum in natural drug discovery, clinical verification, observation and analysis of herbal products. September 19, 2017 In "Health" A former chairman of the Steering Committee and a former Chairman of INEC, Prof. Maurice Iwu says the 1st Bi-Annual National Summit on Plant Genetic Resources for Sustainable national Growth and development is targeted at unleashing Nigeria’s forest potentials and economic growth. July 14, 2018 In "Agric"