Lagos, Nigeria; 27 September, 2019: Cindy has been evicted from the Big Brother Naija house following a surprise eviction on Friday morning. She’s the 17th housemate to leave the show. Cindy was up for possible eviction alongside fellow housemates Tacha, Mike, Elozonam and Ike. They were nominated earlier in the week by Ultimate Veto Power Holder, Frodd who was tasked by Biggie to nominate 5 housemates for possible eviction. Reps. to inaugurate standing committees on Oct. 2(Opens in a new browser tab) In an unusual turn of events, BBNaija Host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu surprised the housemates as he entered the house on Friday morning alongside the auditor from Deloitte who handed over the envelope containing the name of the next housemate to be evicted. Ebuka then proceeded to evict Cindy who had the lowest votes. Unlike past evictions, Cindy was evicted on a Friday morning instead of the regular Sunday night evictions. Biggie is not done with evictions today as our sources have confirmed not one but two surprise evictions will happen in the “Pepper Dem” house today. Reps to inaugurate standing committees October 2(Opens in a new browser tab) Who will be the next housemate to be evicted? Only time will tell.. There are now only 9 housemates left in the race to win the 60 million worth of prizes courtesy of Big Brother Naija. Vanguard Big Brother Naija housemate, Cindy has been evicted from the ongoing reality TV show. Ebuka Obi-Uchendu announced the eviction on Friday in the Big Brother House. Cindy spent 89 days and nine weeks in the house. Cindy emerged the Head of House on September 9, 2019. She joined the show four… September 27, 2019 In "Entertainment" Joe Abdallah and Ede Nkechiyere aka Enkay have been evicted from the ongoing fourth season of the Big Brother Naija show. August 18, 2019 In "News" September 9, 2019: Venita has been evicted from the Big Brother Naija house following the Monday nomination challenge which had five housemates up for possible evictions. She’s the 15th housemate to leave the show. September 9, 2019 In "Entertainment"