A pregnant mother was jailed for eight months after lying about the father of her baby on the birth certificate to spite her ex-boyfriend. Louise Boyce, 30, pretended her new boyfriend Nathan Leggatt was the baby’s father instead of her former lover Ashley Sayce – and took him to register the birth, DailyMail reported. When the couple filled in the paperwork they told officials they were the baby’s parents. Leggatt, 34, broke down in tears during the signing and told staff: ‘It’s a bit emotional to register the baby’s birth.’ But Swansea Crown Court heard Boyce had ‘acted out of spite’ by leaving her ex-boyfriend off the birth certificate because the pair had a bitter split. Their lies were rumbled after social services got involved – and a paternity test proved the truth in the case. Boyce and Leggatt, both of Manselton, Swansea, were arrested and admitted will-fully giving false information concerning the registration of a birth, according to DailyMail report. David Singh, defending Boyce, said she acted ‘out of spite’ towards her former partner Mr Sayce, and a ‘desire’ for Leggatt to be the baby’s father. Andrew Evans, defending Leggatt, said he ‘had a genuine desire’ to play an active role in the baby’s welfare and wanted to be loyal to Boyce. Boyce – who is pregnant again – was jailed for eight months and Leggatt jailed for six months at Swansea Crown Court. Vanguard Nigeria News. Lagos—Operatives of Lagos State Police Command have arrested a 65-year-old house painter, Jamiu Jimoh, and his hairdresser/birth attendant daughter, Yetunde Osin, for allegedly stealing a baby. January 11, 2017 In "News" By Abujah Racheal When Babatunde Opeyemi, an indigene of Ilorin in Kwara State, applied for the Ashisaga Africa Initiative scholarship for higher education abroad, she had very high hopes. The scholarship covers tuition, accommodation, travel costs and other necessary fees. Only one thing stood between the 17-year old and her… April 25, 2019 In "Features" A French woman who left her baby daughter to drown on a beach said Monday she had no other explanation but "witchcraft". June 20, 2016 In "News"