Model Winnie Harlow has sparked outrage on social media by moaning about having to fly economy after her flight to Milan was cancelled at short notice. The former America’s Next Top Model star, 25, took to Instagram last night to tell her followers about her ordeal, revealing she was forced to give up her business class seat, Mirror UK reported. She was on her way to Italy for Milan Fashion Week, and Winnie griped that she hadn’t slept in days and was unhappy about being downgraded. The model added a snap of herself curled up in her economy class seat trying to get some rest. She wrote: “I haven’t slept in 4 days, and my flight got cancelled. “The amazing airport escort got my team and I put on the fastest flight out but we had to give up our business class seats in order to land in time for a huge shoot at 6 am. “I realise this may not seem like a big deal to some, but when a plane is your bedroom and a flight the only time to get sleep during a hectic fashion month, it’s tiresome.” She added: “Regardless I’m grateful, god works in mysterious ways and everything happens for a reason. It’s not everyday glamour, you have to do what you have to do to be successful in life.” However, the post sparked a furious reaction from followers, who blasted Winnie for sounding “entitled”. One wrote: “Grow up… Billions of people in this world might not even see the inside of a plane or yet travel with comfort… “Complaining on the gram about economy class make you seem petty and spoiled rotten. You made it to the top so please show some gratitude… I am sure the next time you can easily afford your luxurious business class seats.” Another added: “is a joke surely? Pls recognise your privilege before you offend any more people.” A third wrote: “Come off it. What a horrific life. Some people don’t get the chance to ever be in an airport, or even brush their teeth for that matter. “There are plenty of harder jobs in this world… I’m sure her paid for flights, paid for food and sitting in a chair having numerous of assistants got her through.” The report indicated that the model later hit back at her critics, insisting she wasn’t being precious about getting bumped from business class. Vanguard Nigeria News. After almost 30 years of a very turbulent and abusive marriage which produced five children; Lydia, still under 50 years, decided that she’d had enough. With all her children now old enough to care for themselves (two already graduated), it was time she concentrated on herself and spend the rest… February 13, 2016 In "News" WINNIE Nomzamo Madikizela-Mandela was a matchless fighter, an unconquerable combatant with  an indomitable spirit who was not only married to the legendary Nelson Mandela, but also to the struggle of the African  people. She was not just the mother who brought up the Mandela children, but was the undisputable Mother… April 6, 2018 In "Owei Lakemfa" Passengers including hundreds of Nigerians on board Air France operated commercial Aircraft from France to Lagos and Abuja have since Wednesday been stranded at Charles De Gaulle International Airport, Paris. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that many of them have to sleep at the airport from Wednesday for… July 20, 2018 In "News"