Pastor Ken Akinmade of Christ Church, London, UK says that there is a concerted effort by some people in power to bring down Vice President Yemi Osinbajo but that there plans will fail. On Sunday, he said some of the people who are working frantically to drag the name and integrity of the Vice President in the mud are even members of his own party, the All Progressives Congress (APC). Pastor Akinmade explained that they are deploying resources from within and without to fight the Vice President, stressing that, Nigerians must pray for the well being of the number two man. He said in a vision he saw some politicians gathering and in their midst were some journalists too. They were planning how they will disgrace the Vice President and ridicule him in the eyes of Nigerians using fake news “The Bible is very clear. Gather they shall gather but if their gathering is not of the Lord Almighty it will be destroyed and scattered. I enjoin all Nigerians to pray for the Vice President. Pastor Akinmade said the story of the Vice President is not different from those of Mordecai and Daniel in the Bible who evil people schemed against but eventually fell for their own plot. He urged Nigerians to be wary of any negative report or stories that are in the media about the Vice President. “In the vision, I heard a voice saying where is their proof, where is their evidence, where is their proof.” “It was then I realized that there was no proof or evidence against him, it was then I saw that they had only gathered against God’s chosen to do him evil and in that instance, I began to pray in the spirit.” He warned the Vice President to be careful of those around him and those who are his friends especially politically and spiritually. He also warned him to be careful of some people from the Southwest. “His biggest enemies are those from the South, mainly the Southwest. Those who he might think are his brothers and sisters are among those who have ganged up against him. They have seen his glory and they are trying everything humanly possible but they forget that man is not God. He urged Nigerians to pray for the Vice President noting that the will of God cannot be truncated at all. “I do not know the Vice President personally but this is what I have to say to him, Sir, be very prayerful. You are a sheep in the midst of wolves. Vanguard Nigerian News Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on Friday declared his stand on raging issues, including corruption, tribalism and religion which he said were the key problems hampering Nigeria’s development. October 28, 2017 In "News" Even after repeated calls by various persons on the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to respect his supposed pastoral calling and stop his nasty habit of lying, Pastor Osinbajo refuses to heed these calls and continues to spew falsehood forgetting or perhaps not caring that the devil is the father… May 3, 2018 In "News" Says VP used and dumped by cabal A political activist and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Timi Frank, has called on the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to beg God and seek forgiveness of Nigerians over the role he played in sharing the N10,000 Tradermoni… September 19, 2019 In "News"