Israel’s election was too close to call on Wednesday, with a partial vote tally showing Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tied with his main rival, former military chief Benny Gantz. An official result was still hours, perhaps days off. But with more than 63 per cent of votes counted, the Netanyahu-led right-wing bloc was, as expected, more or less even with Gantz’s centre-left. With no single-party majority in the 120-seat Knesset, or parliament, there will likely be weeks of coalition talks before a new government is formed, Reuters reported. The ballot’s wildcard, former Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman, emerged as a likely kingmaker as head of the secular-nationalist Yisrael Beitenu party. Lieberman has been pushing for a unity government comprised of the biggest parties. He declined to back Netanyahu’s bid to form a narrow right-wing and religious coalition after an April election, bringing about Tuesday’s unprecedented repeat vote. Addressing Likud party faithful, Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving premier, sipped water frequently and spoke hoarsely. He made no claim of victory or concession of defeat, saying he would await final results. His dead-of-night appearance was a far cry from his triumphant – and in the end premature – declaration five months ago that he had won a close election, according to Reuters report. Gantz was more upbeat, telling a rally of his Blue and White party that it appeared “we fulfilled our mission”, and he pledged to work toward forming of a unity government. “Now it’s time for the real race,” he later told reporters. Vanguard News. Israeli President Reuven Rivlin on Wednesday formally handed Benjamin Netanyahu his letter of appointment to start building a coalition government following last week's general election. April 17, 2019 In "News" An Isreali political analyst after observing the circumstances surrounding the Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu concluded he is desperate to be re-elected. On the eve of Israel's general election, public opinion on the streets of West Jerusalem appears divided over the future of Netanyahu, according to Aljazeera's report. Tuesday's repeat polls… September 17, 2019 In "Foreign" Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel prime minister remains neck and neck with his main election challenger after a widely condemned vow to annex parts of the occupied West Bank, before a vote that could bring an end to his time as Israeli prime minister. In the last polls before election day on… September 14, 2019 In "Foreign"