The Sokoto State Ministry for Basic and Secondary Education has closed  three private schools for non-compliance with the guidelines for establishing  schools. The Public Relations Officer of the ministry, Malam Nura Maikwanci, made the development known in a statement in Sokoto on Sunday. Maikwanci explained that the schools were closed due to their poor learning environment and failure to comply with the guidelines on the establishment of private schools. Lagos and regulation of private schools(Opens in a new browser tab) He named the schools as Coral Foundation Spring Montessori, Brighter Children’s School,  as well as Godiya Nursery and Primary School. Maikwanci  said 10 other private schools did not exist as the committee set up to assess and evaluate the operation of private schools found. “These include Precious Nursery and Primary School, Grace International School, Spring-Field International School and Alkhairi International School. “Also not in existence are TAC Academy Kwannawa, Rhema International School, Kids Ambassadors Nakasari Area, and The Sokoto Academy. “Others are De-Trend Day Care School, and International Academy for Excellence,”  Maikwanci  said. Agbaje urges parents to encourage kids to embrace sports(Opens in a new browser tab) He urged  schools with approvals from Arabic and Islamic Education Board or Local Government Education Authority with full integration to regularise their operations with the ministry. Maikwanci stated the assurance of the Commissioner for Education, Alhaji Bello Guiwa, that  only private schools that compiled with the guidelines of establishment would be allowed to operate. (NAN). Vanguard The Commissioner for Education in Ebonyi, Prof. John Eke, has warned that the government would clamp down on schools in the state being operated without the approval of the government. June 14, 2017 In "News" There was panic in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, yesterday, following the closure of over 40 private nursery, primary and secondary schools by the state government for illegal operation and late resumption. September 13, 2017 In "News" Narrating the incident, the school Headmistress, Miss Idongesit James Tom,said the two pupils were saved by their timely rescue from the collapsed soak away owing to the noise by other pupils which attracted the staff and other workers in the school. July 7, 2009 In "News"