Having squashed and nullified the petitions brought to the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, PEPT, by Alhaji Atiku Abubaka, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 23, Presidential Election, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, Thursday advised the former to apologise to Nigerians for willfully distracting the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari with his frivolous election petitions. Disclosing this in a statement signed by his media aide, Segun Adeyemi, Mr Lai opined that PDP should be thanking its stars that it is not being prosecuted for ”coming to court with a fraudulently-obtained evidence”. I’m back because Buhari trusts me – Lai Mohammed(Opens in a new browser tab) Parts of the statement read thus: ”Nigerians are tired of this orchestrated distraction, and will rather wish that the opposition, having lost at the polls and in court, will now join hands with the government to move Nigeria to the next level,” he said. ”This is more so that the judgement validating the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari was unanimous that the petition lacked merit, that the petitioners failed to prove any of the grounds upon which their case was anchored and that President Buhari is eminently qualified to contest the poll. Tribunal: We didn’t expect Buhari to win — M-Belt Forum(Opens in a new browser tab) ”It is intriguing that a party that trumpets the rule of law at every turn will present, in open court, evidence it claimed to have obtained by hacking into a supposed INEC server. “Don’t they realise this is a criminal act for which they are liable? Instead of threatening to head to the Supreme Court, driven more by ego than commonsense, they should be sorry for allowing desperation to overwhelm their sense of reasoning. Enough is enough.” Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Wednesday urged the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, to apologize to Nigerians for allegedly misleading the nation and heating up the polity with unfounded security breach allegations against the PDP and its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. May 22, 2019 In "News" The federal government has said that it has credible evidence that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party(PDP)and it's presidential candidate Alh Atiku Abubakar are doing everything possible to sabotage the current administration,generally overheat the polity and make Nigeria ungovernable. May 18, 2019 In "News" Former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2019 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has challenged Information minister, Lai Mohammed to come up with evidence if has any, to back his claim that he (Atiku) and the PDP were planning to overthrow the government of… May 18, 2019 In "News"