Saudi stocks plunged 2.3% as the market opened on Sunday, after attacks on two plants at the heart of the kingdom’s oil industry Saturday knocked out more than half of Saudi crude output. Sunday’s decline extended a losing spree for Saudi stocks, which in recent weeks have been hit by expensive valuations, weak oil prices and concerns about the economic outlook, Reuters reported. The drone attacks were carried out by Yemen’s Houthi group, its military spokesman said on Al Masirah TV. The index has lost all its gains this year and is down about 18% from its 2019 high of 9,403 points seen in early May. On Sunday, the index was down 1.8% year-to-date. The index’s earlier gains were fueled by Saudi Arabia’s entry into the MSCI and FTSE Russell’s emerging market indices. “There is no real positive news on the horizon with the index inclusion story over,” said Muhammad Faisal Potrik, head of research at Riyad Capital. “The market was expensive versus the region and other emerging markets, plus second-quarter earnings were not good.” Other Gulf markets also reacted negatively to the attacks, with Kuwait’s premier index down 1.1% and Dubai stocks falling 0.8%. “Sentiment is negative because of yesterday’s attacks on Aramco facilities. But this is temporary and the market will pick up towards the end of the day,” said a trader in Riyadh, who asked not to be identified. Reuters reported that Saudi Basic Industries, the kingdom’s biggest petrochemicals firm, was down 3.3% after it said it had curtailed feedback supplies by about 49% following the attack. Other petrochemical companies such as Yanbu National Petrochemicals Co and Kayan also announced significant reductions in feedstock supplies. The attacks come at a bad time for Saudi Arabia, which is preparing for the listing of oil giant Saudi Aramco on the Tadawul bourse in Riyadh later this year. The attacks are unlikely to change plans for Aramco’s long-awaited initial public offering but may affect the valuation, risk consultancy Eurasia Group said in a note. “The latest attack on Aramco facilities will have only a limited impact on interest in Aramco shares as the first stage of the IPO will be local. The international component of the sale would be more sensitive to geopolitical risks,” it said. According to the Reuters report, Aramco has hired nine banks as joint global coordinators to lead its IPO, slated to be the world’s largest. Vanguard. Yemen's Iran-aligned Houthi group said it attacked two plants at the heart of Saudi Arabia's oil industry on Saturday, knocking out more than half the kingdom's output, in a move expected to send oil prices soaring and increase tension in the Middle East. The attacks will cut the kingdom's output… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign" Saudi Arabian authorities have made further arrests and frozen more bank accounts in anti-corruption crackdown on the kingdom’s political and business elite, sources familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. November 8, 2017 In "News" Saudi de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told United States (US) president, Donald Trump by telephone that Riyadh had the will and capability "to confront and deal with this terrorist aggression," according to Saudi state news agency SPA. The United States condemned the attacks and Trump told the… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign"