Governors of seven states of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) met on Friday in Port Harcourt. According to Mr Simeon Nwakaudu, Special Assistant (Electronic Media) to Gov. Nyesom Wike, the meeting was attended by Govs. Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa), Emeka Ihedioha (Imo); Seyi Makinde (Oyo); Samuel Ortom (Benue); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto); and Mohammed Mattawale (Zamfara). After the meeting, Tambuwal explained that the PDP governors were in Rivers to commend Wike “for his sustained projects delivery’’. He said the governors urged him to continue to deliver quality projects and sustain good governance for the development of Rivers State. Tambuwal also said that PDP remained strongly united in friendship and brotherhood, NAN reported. He said: “We are here as brothers and friends to the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, in the spirit of brotherhood and friendship. “We are here to encourage and support him for the good governance he has given to the good people of Rivers State. “The 100 days of the second term of Governor Wike is also why we are here. “The spirit in Port Harcourt and Rivers State is that of celebration and thanksgiving and gratitude to God for such a wonderful leadership by Governor Wike. “We are also here to join him and the good people of Rivers State in thanking God for his leadership and to thank God for giving the state a wonderful leader like him.” Vanguard Nigeria News. Sokoto State Governor, Rt Hon Aminu Tambuwal, has explained that six Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors visited the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to commend him for his sustained projects delivery. He said the governors urged Wike to continue to deliver quality projects and sustain good governance for the… September 21, 2019 In "News" Senate President Bukola Saraki has described the Rivers State Governorship Election as the toughest during the 2019 election circles, saying that Rivers people deserve commendation for defending democracy. May 27, 2019 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that the defection of Sokoto State Governor, Dr Aminu Tambuwal to PDP is a victory for democracy, noting that every right thinking Nigerian should work in unity to salvage the country in 2019. August 1, 2018 In "News"