President Muhammadu Buhari said on Friday the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting took his mind off the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal’s proceedings and subsequent verdict which upheld his victory in the February 23 election. The tribunal on Wednesday dismissed the petitions filed by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, challenging Buhari’s  eligibility and integrity of the poll in its entirety. Buhari stated this when the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governors’ Forum and the party National Working Committee (NWC) led by its National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, visited him at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The President said: “On this judgement, again it was a fabulous coincidence that it came almost the same time the first Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting of this government was taking place. It lasted about the same time with the judgement. ” I thank God for that because I think would have gone into trauma or something. So I was busy trying to concentrate on the memo. The first memo was on the budget and it took more than five hours. ” So, while you were doing your thing for nine hours, we were doing our for about seven hours here. It is a very interesting coincidence and I thank God for it because I would have been in trauma or something of that sort. “So thank very much for sharing the glory with us. What I will say to your congratulations the chairman of the party and the governors is that we make sure that we really institutionalized the party, so that when we leave the stage the party will continue to lead.” Vanguard The Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has warned President Muhammadu Buhari and the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) not to throw Nigeria into an avoidable crisis over what he described as their desperation to sack the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Walter Samuel Nkanu Onnoghen. January 12, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—Peoples Democratic Party,  PDP,  and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, have asked the Presidential election tribunal sitting in Abuja to compel Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, to surrender all the materials used for the February 23 presidential election for inspection. March 6, 2019 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Friday said that the weekly Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting helped him to absorb the trauma of the judgment of the Presidential Election Petitions Tribunal. September 13, 2019 In "News"