All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA  candidate in the Abia South senatorial poll, Chief Chris Nkwonta, has faulted the judgment of the election petition tribunal which dismissed his petition against Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe of the PDP.
Sen. Abaribe of PDP and Chief Chris Nkwonta OF APGA contested the 2019 Abia South Senatorial seat Delivering judgment on the petition, Justice Wasiu Animasaun held that the petitioner was wrong by solely insisting on the use of smart card reader for accreditation during the election, stressing that the use of manual accreditation during the election is also allowed. In an interview with Vanguard, Nkwonta said the tribunal erred in law when it failed to consider that the fact that the INEC guideline on the use of smart card readers for accreditation of voters, was part of the electoral process. He lamented that the tribunal also ignored the various cases of over-voting and numerous mutilations results entered in favor of his opponent and expressed hope that the Court of Appeal would rectify the matter.
Airbnb announces plans to go public in 2020 “The tribunal erred in its judgment. It ignored the major flank of the petition which was the issue of the use of smart card readers to accredit voters.  The use of smart card readers as an INEC guideline to accredit voters is part of the electoral process meant to ensure the integrity of the system. The tribunal also ignored the serial mutilation of results across polling units in the zone, especially in Obingwa where my opponent comes from. The question is, if my opponent is popular, why did he have to resort to rigging in his local government? “Our judicial system must check the issue of desperation among political office seekers.  The issue is that during the election, a candidate will manipulate the system to be declared a winner because he knows that his action will be rendered a fait accompli by the tribunal. This is unfair.  There is no doubt that the Court of Appeal will not ignore such facts.” Vanguard News With the re-appearance of these two gladiators as flag bearers of their respective parties, analysts have continued to x-ray their chances of securing the seat of the zone in the red camber come 2019 November 25, 2018 In "Politics" Senatorial candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, in Abia South, in the March 28 National Assembly poll, Chief Chris Nkwonta, has expressed confidence on the Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Umuahia. September 24, 2015 In "News" THE battle for Abia South senatorial seat is principally between the incumbent Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and a philanthropist and business mogul, Chief Chris Nkwonta of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). March 1, 2015 In "Politics"