Popular transvestite, Idris Okuneye, better known as Bobrisky, has decided to name his 2019 Range Rover, which he refers to as a female ‘Valeria’. Recall that Bobrisky recently took delivery of the luxury car after the dealer repossessed it for failing to meet up with the payment schedule. The cross-dresser went on rampage over the incident accusing the dealer of being wicked and demanded a refund. He also asked his followers to stay away from the car dealer. The 28-year-old made a video of the car on Wednesday which he posted on his Instagram page after taking it for a wash. He simply captioned the video: “Her name is VALERIA.” Bobrisky had announced the delivery of the luxury car on social media last Sunday. “I’ve always dreamt of this car since last year when the 2018 came out. I told the car dealer I want the 2019 while we are in the year 2019. At first the price tag was scary. But I said to myself I can make it. How I paid over 30million plus on this car I don’t even know. Now the car is right in my compound smiling at me. Congrats to me once again,” he wrote. Bobrisky’s best friend and buddy, Tonto Dikeh, had congratulated him on the delivery of his 2019 Range Rover in a post on Instagram on Monday Congratulations gee @bobrisky222. Many many many more,” she wrote in parts. Vanguard Following the sudden disruption of Bobrisky’s 28th birthday party at the weekend, by the Lagos State Police Command, the cosmetic merchant has opened up on the incident which has continued to generate reactions from different quarters. September 2, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigerian authorities say 22,000 people have been registered as missing in conflict. The Red Cross however said the true number could be higher. Asibi's son is among those missing. She tells the BBC that she can still remember the moment she left him behind while fleeing Boko Haram five years… September 14, 2019 In "News" When Nigerian cross-dresser, Idris Okuneye, better known as ‘Bobrisky’ first emerged on the social media as a public figure, there were many questions as regards his sexuality. But the Ogun State-born self styled ‘male barbie’ claimed he was just an entrepreneur  in the cosmetic business,using an unusual method to sell… November 12, 2017 In "Entertainment"