The Federal Government is committed to resolving the challenges facing the power sector and ensure improved power supply to Nigerians. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipreye Sylva, made this known on the sidelines of the 24th World Energy Congress (WEC), taking place in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. In a statement issued by the Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation(NNPC) Mr NDU Ughamadu in Abuja,  the minister said: ”energy is always at the heart of our prosperity because in Nigeria, oil is central to our national development. Power today has become very central to everything we do.” The Minister, who described as apt the Conference’s theme: “Energy for Prosperity”, maintained that addressing Nigeria’s energy needs would go a long way in Nigeria’s march towards industrialization. “A lot is being done by the Federal Government to improve the energy situation in the country. Government has since recognized the need to improve the nation’s energy situation and that is exactly what we are poised to do,” Sylva added. Earlier in his opening address, the President of the 24th WEC and UAE’s Minister of Energy and Industry, Suhail Al-Mazrouei, said there was a need for global collaboration among energy stakeholders towards addressing the numerous challenges facing the Industry. “It is through foresight, commitment and unity that we can collectively meet the growing energy demand of the world,” Al-Mazrouei added. He also emphasized the role of innovation as the cornerstone of the progress that is been witnessed, especially in clean energy development and allied sectors. He explained that the annual global gathering will challenge participants’ thinking and ultimately drive action towards better energy solutions for the benefit of future generations. In his remarks, the Chairman of the WEC, Mr Younghoon David Kim, said the Council would continue to rally global energy leaders towards a more sustainable energy future. Tagged the world’s premier energy gathering, the 24th WEC is a four-day interactive programme designed to address the critical issues facing the global energy industry today. This year’s Congress is attended by over 150 participating countries and features 80-panel discussions that focus on the entire energy spectrum. Vanguard ABUJA - The United States, U.S. Government has promised to intensify its efforts to work with Nigeria to improve its energy supply by seeking innovative solutions to the power gridlock in the country, even as it has endorsed the on-going reform initiated by the Federal Government within the sector. August 16, 2011 In "Business" Nigeria’s electricity sector is still under the pressures of weak gas supply which has also affected other sectors of the economy, especially some large scale industrial sectors such as cement manufacturing. November 1, 2016 In "News" Nigerian banks, after having their fingers burnt in the past, seem to have finally awaken to the needs and opportunities in the energy sector, and have over the last three years committed about N5 trillion to finance major deals in the sector. February 5, 2014 In "Sweet Crude"