A first-half goal from Javier Hernandez and late strikes from substitutes Erick Gutierrez and Uriel Antuna gave Mexico a comprehensive 3-0 win over the United States in a friendly match in New Jersey on Friday. The two sides renewed North America’s fiercest footballing rivalry just two months after Mexico beat the United States in the final of the Gold Cup and Mexico once again were the dominant side. Hernandez headed in the opener 20 minutes into the first half but much of the credit went to Tecatito whose dazzling wing play and flighted cross from the right flank made things simple for the center forward. READ ALSO: Assembly urges Anambra indigenes to come home, invest Gutierrez doubled Mexico’s lead 12 minutes from full time after the United States defence got caught trying to get the ball out of their own box. Alfredo Morales hit the post for the United States two minutes later but Mexico scored their third moments afterwards when substitute Hirving Lozano drove forward and his pass allowed Antuna, who had entered the field minutes earlier, to slot the ball past Zack Steffen. Josh Sargent had a penalty saved for the United States with three minutes remaining to compound the home side’s miserable night. “It’s a game in which we need to be smarter with some of the plays that we make,” said United States midfielder Will Trapp. “The goals we gave up were a little naive,” he said. Mexico will next play Argentina in San Antonio on Tuesday, while the Americans go to St Louis to face Uruguay. (Reuters/NAN) VANGUARD Veteran Mexico captain Rafael Marquez helped set up a last-16 clash against the Netherlands by finishing second in Group A after Monday's 3-1 win over ten-man Croatia, who exited the World Cup. June 23, 2014 In "2018 World Cup" Javier Hernandez's controversial winning goal gave Manchester United a dramatic 3-2 victory against nine-man Chelsea at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. October 28, 2012 In "Sports" Germany vs Mexico : Defending champions Germany crashed to the first defeat in their opening game of a World Cup since 1982 as Hirving Lozano's clinical finish earned Mexico a shock 1-0 victory on Sunday. June 17, 2018 In "Sports"