Super Falcons Coach, Thomas Dennerby has left the country unceremoniously over claims that some influential members of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) were interfering in his work. A source close to the NFF said the Swede, who led Nigeria to yet another African Women Nations Cup triumph last year and the round of 16 at the France 2019 Women World Cup, left the country immediately after Nigeria’s Tokyo 2020 Olympics qualifier against Algeria at the Agege Stadium on September 3. “Dennerby complained that some NFF officials were making his job difficult for some selfish reasons. READ ALSO: Rohr denies $1m contract clause, says he’s ready to leave if… “These officials ensured that some players, who complained that they were being owed allowances and winning bonuses were shut out of the national team.  These officials wield enormous power in the women teams. “He got angry that these people had taken their activities to his team selection and decided the best thing to do was to go away. But we are trying to talk to him and address his concerns in the interest of the nation,” the source said. Before he left, Dennerby was preparing the Super Falcons for a Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games qualifier against Cote d’Ivoire for which the federation recently invited 30 overseas and home-based players to camp. The players, according to the NFF, are expected to arrive in camp today. VANGUARD Former coach of the Super Falcons, Ismaila Mabo has proposed the immediate takeover of the women national team by a  female ex-international, most of who are doing very well abroad. June 25, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria Football Federation has signed an agreement with top Swedish football coach, Thomas Dennerby, to take the role of Head Coach of eight –time African champions, Super Falcons. January 25, 2018 In "News" Determined to walk the talk of ensuring adequate preparations for the Senior Women National Team, Super Falcons, that would enable the team compete favourably for honours at the 8th FIFA Women’s World Cup finals in France, the Nigeria Football Federation has approved the boosting of the team’s technical crew ahead… April 5, 2019 In "Sports"