Preparations have reached an advanced stage for the third edition of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Tertiary Institutions’ Football Championship slated for Oct. 13 to Oct. 20 in Ilorin. The tournament is being sponsored by JAMB with the sum of N25 million and will involve 16 teams, comprising five universities, five polytechnics and five colleges of Education. They will be joined by a team from the Innovative Entrepreneur Initiative (I.E.I) being institutions which JAMB conducts examinations for. While speaking on the competition Saturday in Ilorin, the Permanent Secretary, state Ministry of Sports and Youth Development, Akanbi Shuaib, said the event’s top prize is a sum of N1 million. Ilorin residents enjoy Sallah with Maltina at LaffMattazz(Opens in a new browser tab) “The first runners-up will get N750,000, while the second runners-up will go home with N500,000.” Shuaib assured all the participating institutions, officials and players that all their entitlements, including feeding, accommodation and other logistics, would be accorded top priority and taken care of. The Permanent Secretary warned that only bona fide students of the participating institutions would be allowed to feature in the tournament as there would be no room for mercenaries. He disclosed that Gov. Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq of Kwara would be the Special Guest of Honour on Oct. 19 at the University of Ilorin during the competition’s final match. “The Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, will also grace the final match,” Shuaib said. “The Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, the Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, and the Vice-Chancellor of the host university, Prof. Abdulkareem Age, will also be at the final.” The Permanent Secretary then appealed to the competition’s match officials to ensure free and fair officiating and respect all the rules and regulations of the game of football. Shuaib also commended JAMB for sponsoring the tournament since 2017, adding that it would serve as an avenue to discover football talents from the grassroots for future national and international competitions.(NAN) Vanguard THERE is a jam in our tertiary institutions admission. Unfortunately, the regulatory Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) which last month, raced to decongest the process, became part of the problem; creating more chaos leading to protests by students, teachers and parents. JAMB was forced to abandon its new policy. August 3, 2015 In "Owei Lakemfa" AS the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, JAMB, commences the conduct of 2018 Unified Tertiary and Matriculation Examinations, UTME, tomorrow, the Association of Tutorial School Operators, ATSO, in Nigeria has faulted claims by the JAMB Registrar, Professor Isaq Oloyede on candidates' registration and the Association. March 8, 2018 In "Education" The Exam Ethics Marshal International has commended the Registrar, Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede and his team for successful conduct of the 2019 JAMB examination. May 15, 2019 In "Education"