Awka—THE land tussle between the Anambra State government and a private property developer, Hillside Estate Ltd., has taken another dimension with the company accused of forgery and impersonation of top government functionaries. The land situated at Nkwelle Ezunaka Government Reserved Area in Oyi Local Government Area on the outskirt of the commercial city of Onitsha was planned by the government for the building of 500 luxury housing units. Two months ago, the state government signed a Memorandum of Understanding, MoU, with another firm, Rotech Energy Services Ltd., to develop an estate on the land, only to discover later that Hillside Estate and another company, Next Agro Transformation Ltd., were selling forms to persons interested in buying plots on the same land. Also read: Nnewi residents threaten to block Enugu-Onitsha Expressway over neglect by FG The state government alleged, yesterday, that its attention had been drawn to a forged statement on social media, purported to be by officials of Anambra State government on the ownership of the land. Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, Mr Don Adinuba, said investigations had established that “the statement was forged in reaction to the Anambra State government’s announcement on August 26, informing the public that Rotech Energy Services Ltd has been authorised to develop over 500 housing units in the place. “It was neither signed by Mr Primus Odili, Chief of Staff to the Anambra State Governor nor Mr Nnamdi Onukwuba, Commissioner for Agriculture who, unknown to the forgers of the statement, has since June 3 ceased to be the Commissioner for Lands. “We warn the public against having any land transaction in the area with either Hillside or Next Agro as they are not stakeholders in Nkwelle Ezunaka GRA. Vanguard Awka—THE land tussle between the Anambra State government and a private property developer, Hillside Estate Ltd., has taken another dimension with the company accused of forgery and impersonation of top government functionaries. September 1, 2019 In "News" Anambra State government and two property developers are battling over ownership of a piece of land earmarked for the construction of 500 housing units at Nkwelle Ezunaka Government Reserved Area, GRA, in Oyi Local Government Area of the state. August 26, 2019 In "News" A NEW high brow housing estate being embarked upon by Anambra State government through a private developer is to cost N9 billion, Special Adviser to Governor Peter Obi on Housing, Mr. Law Chinwuba, has said. December 13, 2011 In "News"