As FEC okays N182.68bn road projects Approves 2020-2022 MTEF THE Federal Government has proposed an increase of the Valued Added Tax, VAT from five percent to seven point two percent. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed disclosed this while briefing State House Correspondents after the Federal Executive Council, FEC meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. Obaseki inspects road projects in Amagba Community, assures of more devt(Opens in a new browser tab) The Minister said that the increase will only commenced after the VAT Act is amended by the National Assembly and after consultations with the  state and local government areas as well as the Nigerian populace. According to her, “Our projection is to finish consultations early enough so that it takes effect in 2020.” She further disclosed that the FEC approved the Medium Term Expenditure Framework and Fiscal Strategic Paper, MTEF/FSP for 2020 to 2022, which will guide the 2020 Budget. The Minister said the next step was to present the document to the National Assembly for consideration. FEC also approved a total of N182. 68 billion for various road projects across the country. The Minister of State for Works and Housing, Abubakar Aliyu, while briefing journalists stated that the road projects covered Lagos, Niger, Kano, Katsina, Edo, Kwara, Taraba, Jigawa, Imo,  Abia, Yobe, FCT, and Anambra. Details soon… Vanguard Zainab Ahmed, the former minister of finance, says the government has plans to raise value-added tax to 7.5 per cent by 2020 from the present 5 per cent. June 27, 2019 In "Business" The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved two Executive Orders and five Amendment Bills to the country’s tax policies aimed at reducing tax burden on Nigerians and boosting ease of doing business. June 6, 2018 In "Business" ABUJA — THE Federal Government, yesterday, unveiled 2016 budget proposal of N6 trillion, allocating 30 per cent of the budget to capital expenditure. December 8, 2015 In "News"