Investment analysts have expressed divergent views on the state of the equities market after the volatility recorded last week. Some believed that the market would follow in the pattern witnessed last week where trading alternated between gains and losses through each trading day, but eventually ended in the red week-on-week. Others argued that the market would close in the green territory given that all sectoral indices closed positive at the end of trading last week. The major equities gauge, the All Share Index, ASI, had closed lower at -0.3 percent to 27,698.69 points following the volatility and flight to safety by investors, despite the freshly constituted economic advisory t by the president Buhari, APC close defence, Tribunal fixes Aug 21 for adoption(Opens in a new browser tab) Consequently, investors lost N39 billion as the market capitalisation of all listed equities closed at N13.523 trillion from N13.484 trillion. In their view,  analysts at Cordros Capital said: “Over the coming week, we expect the market to remain pressured given global risk-off sentiments and weak domestic participation. Nonetheless, we note that valuations remain attractive while price deterioration has resulted in expected dividend yields on some stocks rising significantly to levels on par with yields on Treasury Bills.” They, therefore, advised long term investors to consider appropriately timed investments in the ensuing bearish run. However, analysts at Cowry Asset Management opined that the market would close in the positive territory, saying: “As it appears, investors are beginning to take position in some value and growth stocks given that all the five sectorial indices closed in green territory.” ANALYSTS have expressed divergent views on the likely outcome of the market for this week following the sale pressure that led to the loss of N542 billion. February 11, 2018 In "Business" AS the quarter one, Q1, 2018 earning season comes to a close, investment analysts have expressed divergent opinions on the outlook for equities this week. May 14, 2018 In "Business" THE declining crude oil price and fear of a possible global recession may have added pressures on Nigeria’s equity market as volatility continued on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, last week resulting to reversal of previous marginal gains recorded mid-week. September 2, 2019 In "Business"