FIFA president Gianni Infantino has urged Italian soccer authorities to hand out stadium bans for supporters guilty of racism after another incident in a Serie A match between Atalanta and Fiorentina on Sunday. Play was briefly suspended after Fiore’s Brazilian wing-back Dalbert reportedly told referee Daniele Orsato he had been the target of racist abuse from fans at the Stadio Ennio Tardini in Parma, where Atalanta are based while their ground is revamped. Breaking: FIFA launches its 2022 world cup emblem (Photo, Video)(Opens in a new browser tab) An announcement was read over the stadium loudspeaker urging supporters to stop and the game, which finished 2-2, then continued, but Infantino believes the problem must be taken more seriously. “Racism is combatted with education, condemnation and discussion,” said the FIFA chief, who was a guest on a program aired by Italian state broadcaster Rai. CCL: Enyimba plays a goalless draw with Al- Hilal FC in Aba(Opens in a new browser tab) “You can’t have racism in society or in football. In Italy the situation hasn’t improved and this is serious. “You need to identify those responsible and throw them out of the stadiums. You need, as in England, the certainty of the penalty. You can’t be afraid to condemn racists, we need to combat them until they stop.” On Tuesday, Cagliari escaped punishment for alleged racist behavior by their fans after monkey noises were heard being aimed at Inter Milan’s Belgium striker Romelu Lukaku. FIFA president Gianni Infantino revealed Thursday his dispair at Italy's failure to reach the World Cup finals where he had hoped to hand the trophy to Azzurri captain Gianluigi Buffon. February 15, 2018 In "News" GENEVA - FIFA on Monday called for an investigation into alleged racist comments made by the front runner in the race for the top job in Italian football. July 28, 2014 In "Sports" The Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Deji Tinubu, on Wednesday tasked the newly elected FIFA President, Gianni Infantino, to restore credibility to FIFA. March 4, 2016 In "Sports"