The Federal Government has commenced an investigation into bank accounts belonging to Senate President Ahmed Lawan, Speaker of the House of Reps Femi Gbajabiamila and other principal officers of the National Assembly. The probe which is conducted by the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) is also investigating accounts owned by Nigeria judges including the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Tanko Muhammad. A letter dated Sept. 10, 2019, and signed by NFIU Associate Director, Analysis and Compliance, Fehintola Salisu, stated that the Chief Compliance Officers of banks were directed to release the account details of all legislators and judiciary officials in the country. The Financial Intelligence agency further asked the banks to provide account names, numbers and transaction details of the top civil servants. NFIU listed judges and national assembly members but failed to listany member of the executive arm of government for the same investigation. Education vital to developing young football players, says Ogedegbe(Opens in a new browser tab) The letter with reference: NFIU/ACCFT/ACCOBANKS/VOL.I/877/PO5IA29 reads: “Request for information on: All accounts of: the National Assembly, National Judicial Council (NJC), all the members of the National Assembly, principal officers (management) of the National Assembly Service Commission, (and) of principal officers of the judiciary.(NAN) Vanguard The Nigerian judiciary is indeed passing through a trying time. Never in the annals of the country was this arm of the government enmeshed in a corruption scandal of the magnitude that is currently threatening to erode its integrity. February 2, 2019 In "News" Poised for a fight, the Federal Government, has ordered the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit, NFIU, to immediately freeze five bank accounts belonging to the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen. January 16, 2019 In "News" THE Federal Government has asked the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit, NFIU, to freeze five accounts of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, CJN, Justice Walter Onnoghen pending the determination of the alleged false asset declaration case against him at the Code of Conduct Tribunal, CCT. January 17, 2019 In "Headlines"