 YOLA — A serving soldier, who was on special assignment in the current fight against the Boko Haram insurgents in Mungonu Local Government Area of Borno State has been apprehended alongside one other for alleged robbery and car snatching in Yola. Parading the two suspects in Yola, the Public Relations Officer of Adamawa State Police Command, DSP Sulaiman Nguroje, said the incident happened on Tuesday at 1a.m., near the popular Target Junction in the state capital. According to Nguroje, “the suspects accosted a lady along Target Junction and ordered her to surrender her Toyota Camry car at gunpoint, which she did.  Plateau state Police arrests 26 suspects over alleged criminal acts(Opens in a new browser tab) “Luckily enough, the matter was reported to policemen on duty along Target Junction, who swung into action immediately, in collaboration with vigilante operatives, and arrested the suspects. “We were able to recover the car, an AK-47 rifle and 35 rounds of ammunition from the suspects.” During interrogation by newsmen, the soldier who identified himself as Dampa Hyellambamun, said he was on special operations in Monguno. “I got a pass to come to Yola from my base in Monguno and the pass had expired since August 10,” he said. Asked why he resorted to robbing innocent people instead of defending them, the soldier said he was forced to resort to self-help because he had neither received his salary nor allowance for a long time. He said: “I was given a gun without salary and allowance. What do you want me to do when I’m on the verge of starvation?” The two suspects, according to the Police spokesman, will appear in court as soon as investigations were completed.  Acts of bravado exhibited by hundreds of Boko Haram terrorists who attempted to rescue some of their detained members inside the military barracks in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, yesterday led to the killing of scores of the terrorists during the ill- fated mission/ attack. March 15, 2014 In "News" SOME Nigerian soldiers, yesterday, fired indiscriminately into the air to protest the killing of no fewer than nine of their colleagues in a deadly ambush by gunmen suspected to be Boko Haram at the border areas of Izhe in Madagali Local Government of Adamawa State. February 14, 2014 In "News" Since July 26, 2009, acts of domestic terrorism perpetrated by the Jama’atu Ahlissunnah Lidda’awati wal Jihad (People Committed to the Propagation of the Prophet’s Teachings and Jihad”), also known as Boko Haram, have eclipsed Nigeria’s long standing security threats such as piracy, militancy, kidnappings, and armed robbery. December 28, 2014 In "Metro"