President Muhammadu Buhari has on Monday changed the Economic Management Team created by his vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, with the Economic Advisory Council, and appointed Prof Chukwuma Soludo, Prof Doyin Salami, Dr. Mohammed Sagagi and other notable personalities into the council Disclosing this in statement signed by the his special adviser on media and publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari said that the team would report directly to him. Prof Doyin Salami was named the Chairman of the council, and Dr. Mohammed Sagagi, as the Vice-Chairman. Xenophobia: Tackle power, corruption to keep Nigerians home, Ikubese tells Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) Others include; Prof Ode Ojowu; Dr Shehu Yahaya; Dr Iyabo Masha; Prof Chukwuma Soludo; Mr Bismark Rewane; and  Dr Mohammed Adaya Salisu (Secretary). “The Economic Advisory Council (EAC) will advise the President on economic policy matters, including fiscal analysis, economic growth and a range of internal and global economic issues working with the relevant cabinet members and heads of monetary and fiscal agencies. “The EAC will have monthly technical sessions as well as scheduled quarterly meetings with the President.  The Chairman may, however, request for unscheduled meetings if the need arises”, the statement reads in parts. Vanguard PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has dissolved the Economic Management Team led by the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo. September 16, 2019 In "News" IT was all sweet eulogies at the Michael Okpara square in Enugu, yesterday, as Nigerians of all walks of life and different regional and political divides bided Nigeria's first executive vice president, Dr. Alex Ekwueme good bye from earth. February 1, 2018 In "News" THE appointment of Dr. Olusegun Olutoyin Aganga as the nation’s Finance Minister on April 6, 2010, elicited high expectations in many quarters, especially among private sector operators. The expectations stemmed from his background as Managing Director, MD, of Goldman Sachs, based in London, United Kingdom, a position he held until… June 1, 2011 In "Politics"