President Muhammadu Buhari has taken charge of his government, unlike his first term were he delegated powers to his vice, Professor Yemi Osinbajo to make decisions and approve contracts, annual reports, annual accounts, and power to make regulations, among other key functions. Buhari who promised to lift ten million Nigerians out of poverty and fight corruption, has on Tuesday, directed Osinbajo to, henceforth, seek presidential approvals for agencies under his supervision. Insecurity: Governor Bello says, dialogue with Bandits in Niger has collapsed(Opens in a new browser tab) TheCable who exposed the memo that contains the directive, noted that under the laws setting up the agencies, the president is empowered to give final approval. Apparently, Osinbajo is the chairman of the board of directors of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company NDPHC. He is equally the chairman of the National Economic Council (NEC), a constitutional body made up of state governors and key federal government officials, as well as the National Council on Privatisation NCP. He is the chairman of the governing boards of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), the National Boundary Commission (NBC) and the Border Communities Development Agency (BCDA). Agric. value chain crucial for jobs, productivity – Osinbajo(Opens in a new browser tab) Sections 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 24 of the NEMA act provide that “funding, expenditure, contract awards and regulations” must receive presidential approval. Sections 24, 25, 27, 28 and 33 of the NBC act empower the president to direct on annual reports, annual accounts, power to borrow and power to invest Under the BCDA law, the president also has similar powers. “Suffice it to say the president has finally taken control of his government,” a minister said. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to stop sermonizing and parading like a saint until he answers to the N33 billion corruption allegation as exposed by the House of Representatives. November 10, 2018 In "News" A group, the Yoruba Progressive Youth Congress (YPYC), has warned Nigerians to stop insulting the Vice President of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. November 11, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has tasked Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, to search his soul, seek forgiveness and make restitution for entangling himself in alleged corruption and sharp practices in the concealment of N5.8 billion Northeast Intervention Fund. November 17, 2018 In "News"