Health experts and partner organisations, led by MTN Nigeria, concluded the pilot phase of the multi-stakeholder intervention in the fight against substance abuse among youth in Nigeria in Kano State. After seven months of multiple hard-hitting on-ground activities in Abuja, Lagos, Imo, Rivers, and Bauchi states, the first phase of the widely successful multi-stakeholder Anti-Substance Abuse Programme (ASAP) ended in the northern state. The programme, which is geared at combating the increasing rate of first-time drug-use among young Nigerians, was built on a multi-sectoral approach that amasses a network of stakeholder organisations spanning non-profit organisations, regulatory agencies, professional associations, advocacy champions and individual experts. Stakeholders include the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA); the Police; Federation of Muslim Women’s Associations in Nigeria (FOMWAN); Christians Against Drug Abuse Mission (CADAM); Freedom Foundation, etc. During a courtesy visit by MTN ASAP team to the Government House in Kano State, Dr Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna, Deputy Governor of Kano State commended the effort of the MTN foundation in the fight against substance abuse. “I want to thank MTN foundation, we see all the good works you’ve been doing. It is truly commendable especially against substance abuse and wellness of communities with the ‘What Can We Do Together’ initiative. The government of Kano is not also sitting back with this menace of substance abuse. “We are already working towards setting up an agency to look into substance abuse and we will very much like to work with MTN on this important project. There is so much we can achieve if we collaborate. We have a huge problem on our hands but I am confident we can defeat this problem especially when corporations become more aware and responsible just like MTN has done.” Nonny Ugboma, Executive Secretary, MTN Foundation, gave a glimpse into the programme’s future: “After embarking on this project that has taken us through various nooks and crannies of the country, and listening to the feedback from thousands of young students and volunteers, it has become apparent that our mission has only just begun. For the millions of young Nigerians on the verge of the decision on first-time drug-use, we will continue this campaign aimed at dissuading them. We are humbled by what we have all been able to achieve with the pilot and are expectant for the millions that will be reached in the subsequent phases.” Millions of young Nigerians have been inspired by the programme’s multi-faceted approach that has included direct engagement, digital empowerment, stakeholder collaboration and media advocacy. Following activations in over 125 secondary schools, 16 tertiary institutions, 30 motor parks and markets, influencer workshops, plans are being implemented for an even more targeted second phase. This is expected to continue to affect wide-sweeping changes in various states in Nigeria. Vanguard TOWARDS curbing  the rising rate of substance abuse in Nigeria, MTN Nigeria, under the Anti Substance Abuse Programme, ASAP, led a multi sectoral roundtable on the substance abuse ecosystem in Nigeria and the need for intensified collaborative action. March 6, 2019 In "Health" In a strategic effort to address the growing national problem of alcohol or drug use disorder, MTN Nigeria through the MTN Foundation, in collaboration with a consortium of stakeholders recently launched the Anti Substance Abuse Programme, ASAP. December 27, 2018 In "Health" In keeping to its resolution to fight the abuse of drugs and other substances by Nigerian youths, the Senate is to hold a roundtable to discuss ways to fight the menace. December 17, 2017 In "News"