In a tweet posted a few days ago, the United States (US) president, Donald Trump, included a smartphone picture of Iran’s Semnan Launch Site One, a location believed to be the site where a rocket failure took place.  Astronomy experts diligently examined the image to uncover lots of hidden details. By analysing the angle at which the image was taken, they apparently figured out which spy satellite took it and when. Dutch astronomer and asteroid tracker Marco Langbroek suggests the image could’ve been taken by USA 224, an extremely secretive recon satellite which cost around two billion dollars — a day before Trump tweeted the image. The suspected KH-11-type optical imaging satellite launched in 2011, but has been visible to amateur astronomers and trackers since then, according to Futurism. ALSO READ: I have sent a Special Envoy to Ramaphosa – Buhari speaks on Xenophobic attack “They’re super bright in the sky and are easy to find,” Michael Thompson, a graduate student in astrodynamics at Purdue University, told NPR. But the extremely high resolution of the image has some astronomers puzzled. Calculations put the resolution at an estimated 10 centimeters per pixel, while the newest commercial satellites take images at only 30, according to Quartz. “The level of detail in the image is incredible,” wrote Langbroek in a blog post. “These are high-resolution optical satellites that resemble the Hubble Space Telescope, but look down to Earth instead of to the heavens.” American President Donald Trump has excoriated his predecessors over their policy stance on China by allowing the country’s trade with US to boom, while it has done nothing to rein in the military expansion of North Korea. July 30, 2017 In "News" The Iranian Revolutionary Guard carried out more missile tests on Monday, which is part of the three days of military manoeuvres in spite of U.S. sanctions. February 20, 2017 In "News" The United States said Monday it would start imposing sanctions on friends such as India that buy Iranian oil, in its latest aggressive step to counter Tehran that could jeopardize US relationships. April 22, 2019 In "News"