The Nigerian Army Theatre Command of Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) has launched “Operation Positive Identification” against the fleeing Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists in the North East. The Deputy Director, Army Public Relation, OPLD, Col. Ado Isa, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. He urged the public to always carry valid means of identification when moving or passing through Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states. Isa on behalf of the Nigerian Army said the operation was aimed at searching for and arresting all suspected terrorists that currently roam some parts of the North East. This, according to him, has become necessary following credible information that some of the fleeing criminals are hibernating in some towns and villages of Borno and Yobe States in particular and North East in general, NAN reported. Nigerian Army spokesperson disclosed that the troops had been instructed to strictly check valid means of identification of person before allowing them passage. The Nigerian Army advised people to always carry National Identification Card, Voters Registration Card, Drivers’ License and International Passports, or other valid official identification. “We therefore once again enjoin all to fully cooperate with troops and security agencies in carrying out this exercise. “The Theatre Command also wish to state that anyone not positively identified will attract further scrutiny and comprehensive investigation to determine his or her activities with the insurgents or otherwise. “The general public is please requested to bear with this measure as it is in their best interest and our national security, as well as efforts to end the madness called insurgency as perpetrated by the erstwhile Boko Haram/ISWAP fighters,” he added. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE Nigerian Army has banned activities of a humanitarian agency, Action Against Hunger,AAH,in the North East. September 19, 2019 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale The Nigerian Army has ordered the closedown of an international aid group, Action Against Hunger for assisting the Boko Haram terrorist group. This is the first time the army will be shutting down the activity of a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) in the nation. The army claimed the… September 20, 2019 In "News" By Kingsley Omonobi, Abuja. Army warns residents of Borno & Yobe states against shielding fleeing BHT/ISWAP terrorists. Following military's unrelenting onslaught on the BHT/ISWAP hideouts,  along the Lake Chad region and Northern Borno, credible information reaching the Headquarters of Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole (OPLD) indicates that some of the… September 21, 2019 In "News"