THE Cross River State National Assembly Election Petition Tribunal sitting  in Calabar, yesterday, struck out the petition  by former Senate Leader, Sen. Victor Ndoma Egba against the election of Sen. Sandy Onor for Cross River Central senatorial district in the March 2019 general election. Justice Vincent Agbata described the petition as a pre-election matter and therefore, struck out the case, adding that the tribunal has no jurisdiction to hear it. Ndoma Egba had asked the Tribunal to cancel the election citing his exclusion as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress,  APC, by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC in the election. In its judgment, the Tribunal said that INEC was merely obeying the judgment of the Appeal Court which nullified the candidacy of the petitioner before the election and therefore, upheld the election of Onor of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. Breaking: David Lyon wins Bayelsa APC gov’norship primary(Opens in a new browser tab) On his part, counsel to Ndoma Egba, Efifia Ekong said he will consult his client for further directive. Speaking with journalists shortly after the judement , Ndoma Egba, said he will  appeal the judgment, adding that it needed to be tested at a higher court. “It will be appealed not only for the interest of the litigant but in the interest of the law. We will test the judgment at a higher court in the interest and for the sake of the profession. “We will certainly appeal the judgment in the interest of everybody, not just for those of us who take part in elections. Some of the issues raised by the tribunal should be subjected to a higher opinion,” he said. Counsel to Onor, Patrick Agi said the judgment has added value to jurisprudence of the country. On his part, Director General of Sandy Onor Campaign Organisation, Joe Bisong  thanked  God Almighty for the judgment He also lauded the great people of Central Senatorial district for their resilience and steadfastness in supporting Prof Onor. Vanguard Calabar-National Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal in Cross River State, Thursday, upheld the election of the Senate Leader, Chief Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN) in the April polls for Cross River Central Senatorial District. November 11, 2011 In "News" CALABAR—The absence of Senator Sandy Onor of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, a principal witness in the petition Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba of All Progressives Congress, APC, brought against him, PDP and Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, yesterday, stalled proceedings at the Cross River State Election Petition Tribunal. July 3, 2019 In "News" It took me about 20 minutes for me to do a double-take on the article written by one George E Omini about the political career of Distinguished Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN). May 29, 2015 In "Viewpoint"