A six-year-old Nigerian student, Master Damilare Akano has emerged Africa’s youngest Microsoft Specialist in the Certiport international certification examination. Akano alongside 200 other students participated in a month-long summer camp tagged: ‘Nextgen IT Experts’ organised by a Learning Systems Institute, New Horizons in Lagos recently. The pupils were trained in various information and communication technology, ICT, courses like Microsoft, Multimedia, Robotics Engineering, Drone Technology, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality, Artificial Intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT) and Coding, among others. He came top in the Microsoft Office PowerPoint 2016 examinations with a score of 871 out of 1000 points. He was followed by a 10-year-old Masters Toluwalese Kwaku and eight-year-old Master Kolawole Akano, who scored 825 and 800 respectively. Three of them are pupils of Scholar Crest International, Omole, Lagos. Also read: NDDC Board: You lack mandate to speak for Itsekiris, Itsekiri groups tell Lori-Ogbebor Managing Director of New Horizons, Mr Tim Akano, said the achievement of the six-year-old Damilare as Africa’s 2019 youngest Microsoft Certified Office Specialist did not come as a surprise, but bears testimony to excellence which New Horizons is known. He said in the last 14 years, the company has strived to solve one of the major problems confronting corporate Nigeria like shortage of ICT professionals. He was happy to announce that over 75 per cent of those who work in ICT departments of corporate Nigeria today passed through New Horizons’ training either in the institute’s partnering universities or training centres. Vanguard The partnership between New Horizons Systems and Vivian Fowler Memorial Girls College, sealed six months ago has yielded fruits May 18, 2011 In "Technology" As the nation continues to savour in the thrills and frills of her 50 years of nationhood sojourn, with various sectors of the economy showcasing their exploits in the period under review, Bethany Hall Primary School, Ogudu, Lagos in partnership with New Horizons Systems Solutions Limited recorded a landmark for… October 14, 2010 In "Technology" A 13 year student of Vivian Fowler Memorial College for Girls, Miss Hadiza Adeleke has emerged the only Nigerian representative at this year’s worldwide competition on Microsoft Office for secondary students, in Las Vegas, USA. The competition runs from July 29 to August 1, 2012. July 11, 2012 In "Technology"