Mrs Temitope Adeyemi, a teacher at Akiitan Senior Secondary School, Lagos, has counselled students to develop positive mindset to be able to actualise their dreams and reach their goals in life. She stated this during a chat with Vanguard as pupils and students resumed for a new academic session. She noted that a positive mindset would allow them  to assimilate, understand and cope with the new challenges  they would encounter in the new term, adding that goal-setting by teachers and students was necessary, as it would have positive effects on  all. She also stressed that teachers should inculcate social values into their students for peace and fairness in student-teacher, student-student and student-administrator dealings. Tribunal judgment: Be magnanimous in victory, NANS urges Gov. Abiodun(Opens in a new browser tab) Adeyemi also charged teachers to show good examples to their students in the way they dress, speak and act so that they would be positive role models. She enjoined students to see learning beyond what is taught in the classroom and be active in other non-academic activities such as belonging to groups like Girl’s Guide, Boy’s Scout etc to learn leadership qualities. Vanguard Bothered by the yearly failures of our secondary school students in their Senior School Certificate Examinations, SSCE, the West African Examinations Council, WAEC, has swung into action to tackle the downward trends by organising national trainings for secondary school teachers, beginning with Lagos State. February 6, 2014 In "Education" Professor Akachi Ezeigbo from the Department of English, University of Lagos, a Chief Examiner at the 15th Mike Okonkwo National Essay Competition has faulted parents, teachers and educational managers for students’ failure, urging them to put in more effort at guiding their children to develop their own skills. She frowned… September 11, 2014 In "Education" Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Dr. Oluranti Adebule has charged teachers in the state to always put in their best in the discharge of their duties so as to distinguish themselves among their peers. January 23, 2014 In "Education"