ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has again taken a swipe at the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government over what it called the failure to take decisive steps to end bloodletting and guarantee a stable, peaceful and secured nation. This is even as the party described as “completely inexcusable” that as an individual, occupying the seat of the Commander-In-Chief, “President Buhari has failed to organize his parade and articulate a decisive and operable strategy to effectively end violence in our nation.” A statement signed by the party’s spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan on Sunday  read: “The PDP notes with dismay that the Buhari Presidency only stops at issuing condemnations, publishing commiserations and embarking on condolence visits with empty assurances, but takes no definite steps to address the situation and bring culprits to book. “At most, Presidency officials sit in the safety and comfort of Aso Rock to task state governors and traditional rulers, without concrete security measures to rout perpetrators. “This complete failure of leadership and abdication of the statutory duties of the President indicates that the Buhari Presidency has no solutions towards ensuring the security of lives and property in our nation. Yoruba group lauds PMB over strong economic, security team to reclaim Nigeria’s glory(Opens in a new browser tab) “The PDP holds that such failure by the Buhari Presidency is emboldening perpetuation of violent acts against defenceless citizens by insurgents, bandits, marauders and kidnappers freely pillaging our compatriots in various parts of our country. “Each passing day, our nation is jolted by shocking news of avoidable violence, mindless killings, preventable bloodlettings, loss of breadwinners and murder of promising citizens. Indeed, this is not the way to go. “Our party notes as saddening that under President Buhari, who promised to lead from the front, only to withdraw to the safety of Aso Rock, Nigerians can no longer move freely around their country as insecurity pervades on all fronts. “The PDP laments that instead of seeking help and yielding to competent and patriotic counsel from well-meaning Nigerians, the Buhari Presidency has remained heavy on propaganda and false performance indices. “The PDP, as a party, immensely commends the sacrifices of our gallant troops who are risking their lives in the front to secure other citizens. Nigerians indeed appreciate their sacrifices at this trying time in our national history. “The party calls on Nigerians to be more alert and prayerful; continue to be their brother’s keepers and remain steadfast in the collective quest to retrieve the stolen Presidential mandate at the court as the only option to pull our nation out of the woods in which it was plunged by the Buhari administration. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has taken a swipe at the Presidency for allegedly shielding the health status of President Muhammadu Buhari in secrecy, saying  that his trip, yesterday, to the United Kingdom to see his doctors was an indication that he was not fit to effectively preside over the… May 9, 2018 In "News" ABUJA - The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has taken a swipe at President Muhammadu Buhari for his recent statement enjoining Nigerians to brace up for tough times,   saying such a statement   was an indication that the first citizen was insensitive to the plight of Nigerians. December 16, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has described the last minute denial of the use of the Old Parade Ground, Abuja for its Presidential mega rally allegedly by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration as the last kicks of a dying horse, saying regardless of the position of government, the rally would… February 9, 2019 In "News"