The British Council has said that it’s ready to invest in Imo state, especially in the area of developing of talents of young people in the creative art industry. Vanguard gathered yesterday in Owerri, the Director of Programmes British Council, Ojoma Ochai, spoke at the 75 years anniversary of the creative art seminar organized by British Council in the state. She briefly stated that some of the reasons for which the British council would focus in Imo state, was based on the bountiful of talents said to have been discovered in the state, in the creative art industry. Breaking: Ihedioha to storm Okorocha’s estate with “citizens”(Opens in a new browser tab) Ochai, said as part of their arrangement included practical training to expose the young people who were yet to identify their capacities, adding that they will be enlightened on how they would also make money from it. It was Ochai’s opinion that the technical aspect of the seminar would also quide the participants on the critical steps they ought to have taken in laying foundation for their future plan in the creative art industry. According to the Director of Programmes Department of the British Council, Ochai said: “The British Council is interested in helping the young people develop the creative art industry in the state, to develop the skills, the market that can allow them earn a living which area you are working we believe that one of the things we can do is to help develop the capacty.” “We are going to be doing a lot of skills in the artistic industries in the training to empower them in the technical aspect of the industry and the business skills as well to help them support opportunities to develop businesses and product they can sell to earn a living.” Vanguard By Chinonso Alozie Owerri—Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State yesterday, said he was ready to reveal his blueprint for the development of the tourism sector in the state. Governor Ihedioha stated this in Owerri through his Commissioner for Tourism, Creative Art and Culture, Chijoke Nzekwe, at the creative art seminar… August 23, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, says the Federal Government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the British Council and the Tony Elumelu Foundation to develop the creative industry. January 28, 2017 In "News" FEATURES of the 2016 Lagos Theatre Festival especially with regard to spell-binding theatrical performances in unconventional places, were eloquent indication of how the event has grown bigger, bolder and better. Art enthusiasts, caucasians, sponsors and those in the creative industry were among individuals in attendance at the grand opening of… March 3, 2016 In "News"