Millions of Afghan voters are set to elect a new leader in the fourth presidential election since the Taliban armed group was thrown out of power in a United States-led invasion in 2001. Polls will open 7 am local time (02:30 GMT) on Saturday and are scheduled to close by 5 pm (12:30 GMT). Preliminary results of the election are not expected before October 19. A presidential candidate must secure 50 per cent of the vote to win outright. In case no candidate crosses the 50 per cent threshold, a runoff will be held between the top two contenders in the second round in November, Aljazeera reported. About 9.5 million voters are registered to cast their ballot to decide the fate of 15 candidates, including the incumbent, Ashraf Ghani, whose administration has been blighted by corruption allegations as well as overseeing the rising number of civilian casualties. According to Aljazeera earlier this month, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Washington would withdraw $160m in planned infrastructure and other aid funding from Afghanistan, citing corruption and financial mismanagement by Ghani’s government. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Afghan Taliban on Thursday ordered its fighters to use all means at their disposal to disrupt a presidential election taking place in the country later this week. The militant group said it would attack security forces at polling stations and block roads to disrupt voting. It added that in… September 26, 2019 In "Foreign" KABUL - Crowds queued up outside voter registration centres in Afghanistan on Sunday and presidential candidates held large campaign rallies, six days ahead of elections that have been shaken by Taliban attacks. The vote, which will choose a successor to President Hamid Karzai, comes as US-led foreign troops withdraw after… March 30, 2014 In "News" The stage is set for the announcement of final presidential election results by the Chief Returning Officer, Prof Attahiru Jega, as accredited stakeholders arrive the National Collation Centre in Abuja April 17, 2011 In "Headlines"