Young and wealthy publisher Of Black celebrity Magazine, Tunde Biletiri has set the social media on fire with his claim that he is richer than Huspuppi and Mompha. The young publisher who called himself the youngest billionaire said both of them are broke and can’t be compared with the real wealth he controls. In an Instagram post on his official page,@biletiri he claimed that while they are eager to meet governors, he is busy sponsoring elections behind the scene.   Billionaires don't make noise, don't  be deceived  by what @huspuppi and @mompha display on the internet they are broke niggas….Dangote won't pose with his bag of cement……#1billion well spent…… A post shared by  BILETIRI (@biletiri) on Sep 16, 2019 at 8:33am PDT  READ ALSO: Mayhem in Ajah, Ojota, one killed, scores injured   I get money to the extent I dey busy some Governors calls, they wanna meet the Governors  but we sponsor Governors election… A post shared by  BILETIRI (@biletiri) on Sep 15, 2019 at 10:45pm PDT  “Billionaires don’t make noise, don’t be deceived by what @huspuppi and @mompha display on the internet they are broke ni**as…. Dangote won’t pose with his bag of cement ….. #1 billion well spent…. “I get money to the extent that I Dey busy some Governors calls, they wanna meet the Governors but we sponsor Governors election….” VANGUARD The producer of the movie “Itohan” in which Nollywood actress, Cossy Ojiakor was alleged to have had sex with a dog in one of the scenes has been found by Potpourri. August 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" THE Nigerian entertainment industry experienced its share of highs, lows and tragedy in 2018. The death of music legend, Ras Kimono and his wife, Efemena Okedi, which shocked the industry. There were also controversies, feuds and the premiere of groundbreaking movies which defined the outgoing year. But beyond all that,… December 28, 2018 In "Entertainment" MEDIA icons and eminent Nigerians, yesterday, converged on Lagos to honour Vanguard publisher, Mr. Sam Amuka and discuss future of the newspaper industry in the country. July 31, 2015 In "Headlines"