Russia has widened a crackdown against Jehovah’s Witnesses, jailing six adherents of the Christian denomination for extremism in a move rights activists said was unjust and flouted religious freedom. A regional court in Saratov jailed six Jehovah’s Witnesses on Thursday for up to three-and-a-half years, a court spokeswoman said on Friday. “Yes they were convicted,” the spokeswoman, Olga Pirueva, said. “Punishments ranged from three years and six months down to two years (in jail).” The court found the six men guilty of continuing the activities of an extremist organization, a reference to a 2017 ruling from Russia’s Supreme Court which found the group to be an “extremist” organisation and ordered it to disband, Reuters reported. The US-headquartered Jehovah’s Witnesses have been under pressure for years in Russia, where the dominant Orthodox Church is championed by President Vladimir Putin. Orthodox scholars have cast them as a dangerous foreign sect that erodes state institutions and traditional values, allegations they reject. The latest jailings follow the conviction in February of a Danish builder in Russia for his association with Jehovah’s Witnesses. Dennis Christensen was found guilty of organizing an extremist group and jailed for six years. Over 250 Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia are facing criminal charges, according to the group, with 41 in detention and 23 under house arrest. Under Thursday’s ruling, Konstantin Bazhenov and Alexei Budenchuk were sentenced to three-and-a-half years in jail, Felix Makhammadiev to three years, and Roman Gridasov, Gennady German, and Alexei Miretsky to two years in prison each. According to the report by Reuters, the court also banned them from holding leadership positions in public organisations for five years. Jehovah’s Witnesses say Russia’s constitution guarantees their adherents right to exercise freedom of religion and deny wrongdoing. “The whole logic of the accusation was based on the speculative thesis that faith in God is ‘a continuation of the activities of an extremist organization’,” Jarrod Lopes, a US-based spokesman for the group, said in a statement. “Instead of searching and proving the guilt of the defendants, the aim of the investigation was to prove their religious affiliation, despite the fact that no religion is prohibited in Russia.” Lawyers for the men plan to appeal what they regard as absurd convictions, said Lopes, according to Reuters report. With about 170,000 followers in Russia and 8 million worldwide, Jehovah’s Witnesses are a Christian denomination known for door-to-door preaching, close Bible study, and rejection of military service and blood transfusions. They believe the end of the world as we know it is imminent, an event “the obedient” will survive to inhabit the Kingdom of God they believe will follow. Rachel Denber of US-based Human Rights Watch condemned the court’s ruling, saying the men had been jailed for nothing. “They should be freed,” Denber said on social media. Vanguard News Nigeria. Russia’s Supreme Court will continue hearing on Thursday a request by the government to ban Jehovah’s Witnesses and declare the Christian group an extremist organisation. April 6, 2017 In "News" The Jehovah’s Witnesses have been classified an extremist organization. March 17, 2017 In "News" Russia's justice ministry said Thursday that it has added Jehovah's Witnesses to its black list, formalising a ban for the Christian movement over alleged "extremist activities." August 17, 2017 In "News"