He may have won the FIFA player of the year award for a record sixth time, but Super Eagles manager Gernot Rohr does not think Lionel Messi’s was one of the top three players in the world last year according to the voting results that were released last night. Messi picked up his sixth world player of the year award at the FIFA best awards show that was held at the Teatro alla Scala in Milan, Italy. The Barcelona captain took the biggest individual award in football after winning 46 per cent of the scoring points ahead of Virgil Van Dijk who got 38 per cent, while Cristiano Ronaldo came third with 36 per cent. However, it was not all the national team managers that believed Messi was the best player of the past one year with Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr as one of them. In the voting breakdown that was released after the winners were announced, there was no room for Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo in the former Bordeaux manager’s top three. The 66-year-old German tactician instead went for Kylian Mbappe as his best player in the past year ahead of Virgil Van Dijk and Eden Hazard who both completed his top three. Rohr’s top three players in the world are the stark contrast of that of his captain Ahmed Musa. On the coaching side, however, the former Burkina Faso manager voted Jurgen Klopp as the coach of the year ahead of Algeria’s Belmadi Djamel and Didier Deschamps. Vanguard Lionel Messi was the Eagles boss’ top pick for the award, with Antoine Griezmann and Manuel Neuer taking up his second and third votes for the gong October 25, 2017 In "News" Luka Modric Monday won FIFA’s The Best award after helping Real Madrid to win the Champions League and playing a key role for Croatia at the 2018 World Cup. September 26, 2018 In "News" Forget FIFA rankings, forget the poor following the domestic game enjoys at home or the sometimes, the man-made frailties on the part of administering the game in Nigeria, football definitely brought joy to the greatest number of Nigerians in 2017 than any other aspect of our the polity. December 31, 2017 In "News"