An indigenous   information technology, IT, firm, Tanta Secure Limited, has unveiled services plan termed ‘Corporate and Individual Plans’ in fixing technological devices in Nigeria. The  company can easily pass as corporate technicians. But Tanta is a bit more than that because technology is at the heart of its services. With an app that can be downloaded from google play store, all a user needs to do is register the services he wishes to be offered, ranging from smartphone, to home appliances repairs, among others. The user will also fund his wallet on the Tanta platform which will represent upfront payment. With these steps, the Tanta engineers are just a phone call away when the user needs  his equipment repaired. Like Uber, Tanta gathers trained technicians across the Lagos metropolis, advance their knowledge and certify them as Tanta technicians. It is these technicians that are deployed immediately the client calls, depending on location. The company’s payment plan  include six months and 12 months plans which cater for various segments of the society including students. OPPO makes first 5G multiparty video calls on Smartphone(Opens in a new browser tab) Tanta’s platform has inbuilt artificial intelligent, AI, enabled app that scans for problems in Smartphones and locate nearest technician within a kilometre radius. The company said the reason for designing its services in that manner, is  because Nigerians  like to buy sophisticated gadgets and therefore need sophisticated technicians   to maintain them. Founder of the company, Abraham Tanta said TantaSecure protects all devices, appliances, electronics and gadgets  no matter the make and model Director of Marketing, Mr. Semilore Adeosun, said: “We know that the things you protect are valuable and we also understand that accidents and malfunctions aren’t your fault; that’s why we promise to make filing a claim easier for you. Vanguard AN online platform that will enable motorists to locate competent mechanics that specialise in different vehicle brands within their vicinity has been introduced. Mecofinder is an app just unveiled by a group of young graduates in Lagos that can be accessed by vehicle owners/drivers to connect with nearby registered mechanics… July 21, 2017 In "Motoring" THE constant campaign for more women to participate in the technology field seems to be yielding fruits. Besides raising women’s interest, the call is also reshaping the way corporate organisations engage female clients. August 14, 2013 In "Technology" SystemSpecs, a financial technology company in Nigeria and owner of Remita, Friday announced the release of the Beta version of Remita Mobile Application, to empower individuals to view multiple bank balances on one screen, make payments from and to various bank accounts including microfinance banks, settle various bills to Federal… March 10, 2017 In "News"