The Presiding Pastor, Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide, Auchi, Apostle Johnson Suleiman, says he is willing to assist in airlifting more Nigerians willing to return home from South Africa. Suleiman said this on Thursday in his verified twitter handle @APOSTLESULEMAN in Auchi, Edo. South African Parliament calls for cutting-edge strategies to fight rising crimes(Opens in a new browser tab) The cleric said that he had ordered for flight tickets for some Nigerians willing to come back home, following the xenophobic attacks on them and their property by South Africans. “Just heard 900 Nigerians want to return home from South Africa. I asked the flight tickets to be bought for 20 Nigerians in South Africa who want to return home.
“I will take care of the cost. Please register at our church in Johannesburg. “We will airlift more by God’s grace. God keeps you all alive,” the cleric said in his tweet. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Air Peace on Wednesday transported the first batch of 178 Nigerians back to the country from South Africa. The Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema had volunteered to release aircraft, free of charge, for evacuation of Nigerians willing to return home following the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians. Xenophobic attacks: Youth stage peaceful protest in Kano(Opens in a new browser tab) “Air Peace is willing to support the Nigerian government’s efforts in this matter by deploying our aircraft to evacuate Nigerians back home,” Onyema said. The chairman of the Airline advised the returnees against making payment to anyone for their flights to Lagos. The Nigeria Consul General in South Africa, Godwin Adama, in an interview with NAN on Thursday said that more Nigerians were still coming to register to be airlifted back home. Adama disclosed that the number of Nigerians willing to return home from South Africa, following the xenophobic attacks, had increased from initial 640 to over 1,000.(NAN) Vanguard The General Overseer of the Omega Fire Ministries, Apostle Johnson Suleiman, has revealed how he had prophesied about the recently intercepted Nigerian-bound Russian ship with explosives. The revelation was contained in a rebroadcast of the video clips of  Sunday service  on the churches Television Channel "Celebration TV" , where the… August 28, 2018 In "News" APOSTLE Johnson Suleiman of the Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide, yesterday, denied reports that he instructed Christians to go after Muslims, describing the report as not only senseless but malicious January 26, 2017 In "News" The Founder and Senior Pastor of the Omega Fire Ministry, Auchi, Apostle Johnson Suleiman, has released 50 shocking prophecies for the year 2018. January 2, 2018 In "News"