Some Civil Servants in Kaduna State on Friday commended Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’i for paying the N30,000 minimum wage as promised. El-Rufai in a statement in August signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Communications, Muyiwa Adekeye, promised to pay the N30,000 National Minimum Wage in September. Mr.Zubairu Bello, a Grade Level 10 officer, said he was shocked when he received an alert of N65,500, representing an N25,500 increase from the N40,000 he receives monthly as a salary. “I am so happy with this development because now I can comfortably feed my family, pay school fees and make some savings. “I want to thank El-Rufa’i for the gesture. This is a prove of his administration’s commitment to putting people first,” Bello told NAN. Another civil servant on grade level 05, Malam Shehu Jaji, told NAN that his salary was increased from N23,000 to N38,804. “I know the governor has promised to pay the N30,000 minimum wage, but I took it as a mere political statement until yesterday when I received the salary alert of N38,804. “This will improve the quality of life of my family because my disposable income has significantly improved. I deeply appreciate the governor for keeping his promise,” Jaji said. A level 07 officer, Asiru Abdulsalam, who equally thanked the governor for keeping his promise, also said that his salary has increased from 28,000 to 47,000. Similarly, the Trade Union Congress, Kaduna State Council, also joined workers in commending the governor for implementing the minimum wage as promised. The union, in a letter of appreciation to the governor, signed by the Council’s Chairman, Shehu Mohammed, described the development as commendable considering that the Federal government was yet to fully implement the national minimum wage. The union promised to support the El-Rufa’i led-administration to move Kaduna State to greater heights by assuring that the productivity of the workforce improved. Source: NAN Vanguard News Kaduna State governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufa’i, has begged members of the House of Assembly to review their salaries and allowances downward in order to generate more revenue for the development of the state. June 11, 2015 In "News" Mr Adebayo Seun, a 200 level Fine Arts student of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, on Saturday sold a portrait of Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State, which he painted in two minutes for N2.0 million. September 15, 2018 In "News" Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i of Kaduna State has promised to end incessant cases of kidnapping to guarantee the safety of lives and property of the citizens in the state. April 30, 2016 In "News"