A trio of couples were publicly flogged in Indonesia’s Aceh province on Thursday, charged with breaking a local law that outlaws public displays of affection. Despite international condemnation, whipping is a common punishment for a range of offences in the deeply conservative region on Sumatra island, including gambling, drinking alcohol, and having pre-marital sex. Aceh is the only region in Indonesia, the world’s biggest Muslim-majority country, that enforces these laws. On Thursday, a masked officer rained down between 20 and 22 strokes from a rattan cane each on three men and three women caught behaving ‘amorously’. They had all served several months in prison. One woman winced and fell over from the painful punishment, which was carried out in front of a mosque in the provincial capital Banda Aceh. Dozens of onlookers, including some visiting Malaysian students, watched the spectacle. “I’m nervous because this is the first time I’ve seen something like this,” said visitor Muhammad Rushdy. “But it can serve as an important lesson for us from other countries to comply with local regulations,” he added. Banda Aceh’s mayor Aminullah Usman repeated his long-held claim that the punishment is a deterrent. “But we keep telling visitors not to be afraid to visit Banda Aceh… because you won’t be flogged if you don’t break the law,” he said. Rights groups have slammed public caning as cruel, and Indonesia’s President Joko Widodo has called for it to end, but the practice has wide support among Aceh’s population. (AFP) Vanguard Nigerian News. Two Indonesians are to go on trial in an Islamic court for having gay sex and could receive 100 strokes of the cane each if found guilty, officials in the conservative province of Aceh have said. April 10, 2017 In "News" A 60-year-old woman was caned in public in the North-West of Indonesia's Sumatra Island on Tuesday after a local district court declared her guilty for selling alcoholic beverages. April 12, 2016 In "News" A group of amorous couples and accused sex workers were publicly whipped for breaking Islamic law in Indonesia's Aceh Friday, just a week after the province pledged to move the widely condemned practice indoors. April 20, 2018 In "News"