PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has declared that the only acceptable form of governance in the 21st century Africa is a democracy. President Buhari who made the remarks following the announcement of the interception of an attempted plot against the authorities in Ghana said that democracy was the only way to install and to change an administration. The President in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, said that the days of coups and government without votes were over. According to him, “Nigeria and Ghana are leading partners in ECOWAS, and Transparency International, and Afro barometer’s Africa Index 2019 attested that both countries have recorded exceptional advances in fighting corruption. When you take on powerful and corrupt vested interests successfully, sometimes they seek to push back.  As the saying goes, ‘if you fight corruption, corruption will fight back. “The only acceptable form of governance in our region in this 21st century is through democratic elections. It is the only way to install – and the only way to change – an administration. The days of coups and government without votes are over. “All Africans hold the nation of Ghana in the highest esteem as the first post-colonial country to gain independence and the first African country to hold multi-party elections by universal suffrage. Ghana is the first, true African democracy. “We in Nigeria hold out – as always – our hands in support and friendship to our brothers and sisters in Ghana.” Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the reported attempted coup against the constituted authorities in Ghana. The president made his feelings known through a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Wednesday. Buhari described the incident as a clear case of ‘corruption… September 25, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has stressed the need for continental strategic partnership and a global alliance to successfully defeat corruption and corrupt practices in Africa. June 11, 2019 In "News" President Mohammadu Buhari has said that military coup d'état were not longer acceptable in today's Africa, stressing it was punishable to take over political power by force. September 26, 2015 In "News"