Senator Douye Diri has emerged as the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP for the November 16 governorship election. Diri, who is Governor Seriake Dickson annoited aspirant from the Restoration political family won the primary by polling 561 votes to beat twenty other aspirants. The voting process which commenced late Tuesday night at about 11.30pm dragged into the early hours of Wednesday. Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, who was the chairman of the governorship electoral panel that conducted the exercise said Timi Alaibe came second with 365 votes while Keniebi Okoko came third with 142 votes. READ ALSO: PDP Will lose Kogi unless – Concerned Stakeholders According to him, Rear Admiral Gboribiogha John-Jonah (rtd) scored 62 votes while Benson Kombowei polled 24 votes, Arc Reuben Okoya got 19 votes with Kombowe Benson polling 24 votes. Ishaku added that Ayawe Nimibofa and Joshua Maciver scored 7 votes each while Kemela Okara, Etolor Robinson, Franklin Osaisai and Bolade Igali polled 4 votes each while Benson Agadaga, Talford Ongolo, Kiyaramo Johnson and Alagoa David had 3 votes each, Igiri Tobin scored 2 votes. According to the Taraba governor, 1,237 accredited delegates voted during the primaries out which 16 votes were declared invalid. VANGUARD Disputes, anger and defections are now trailing many of the primaries held across the nation by the various parties to pick their candidates ahead of the April general elections. Highlight of these is Wednesday’s interim injunction issued by an Enugu State High Court restraining the National Chairman of the ruling… January 15, 2011 In "Politics" APART from initial hitches leading to late commencement in most states and boycotts by aggrieved aspirants in a couple of states, the governorship primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) lived up to the billing, yesterday. December 9, 2014 In "Headlines" By Dirisu Yakubu Ahead of Monday’s Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election in Bayelsa state, elders and chieftains of the party have advised delegates to settle for the aspirant of their choice and shun any attempt by powerful forces to impose one on them. The elders and stakeholders of… September 2, 2019 In "Politics"