The People’s Democratic Party, PDP, and its candidate in the 2019 National Assembly election for Kogi East Senatorial District, Senator Ali Atai Aidoko Usman, have failed in their bid to upturn the decision of the Election Petitions Tribunal which earlier dismissed their petition against the victory of Senator Isah Jibrin Echocho and the All Progressives Congress, APC, at the Appeal Court sitting in Abuja. The appellate court on Friday equally dismissed Aidoko’s appeal for lacking in merit. In dismissing the appeal, the appeal court upheld the decision of the tribunal that there was no credible evidence led by the appellant to show that the 1st Respondent (Senator Isah Jibrin) was not qualified to contest the election. Tribunal Verdict: Let us partner to develop Delta – Okowa(Opens in a new browser tab) The court also ruled in favour of the election panel’s decision that the election was conducted in substantial compliance with the Electoral Act and that Senator Isah Jibrin and the All Progressives Congress, APC, won the election by majority of lawful votes cast. In a brief response, Senator Isah hailed the decision, saying it is a reaffirmation of the people’s trust in him and his party, the APC. “This judgment is a verdict of our popularity and the people’s trust in us. I employ all stakeholders to join hands in taking Kogi East to the desired level,” he noted. Vanguard The lawmaker representing Niger East Senatorial District, Senator Sani Musa,  yesterday  commended the decision of the National Assembly Elections Tribunal sitting in Minna, the Niger state capital  striking out the petition of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Senatorial candidate, Ibrahim Isyaku  in the 2019 general elections. September 7, 2019 In "News" The Court of Appeal, Lagos Division, Friday, dismissed an appeal on the matter brought by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Mrs. Salis Ayodele against the law maker representing Lagos East Senatorial District, Senator ‘Gbenga Ashafa and his party, the All Progressives Congress. September 12, 2015 In "News" The Supreme Court, on Friday, struck out an appeal by Senator Uche Ekwunife, challenging nullification of her election for the Anambra Central Senatorial District. February 11, 2017 In "News"