Bishops in Germany have defended a national reform process and denied that their efforts are leading to a rift with the Vatican in the aftermath of sexual abuse scandals that have rocked the Catholic Church in recent years. Felix Genn, bishop of the German city of Muenster, said the church needed to develop a more balanced relationship between priests and their congregants, as well as with women. “We must and want to follow the tortuous path of accountability, at first glance taking into account the victims but also the church structures that allowed and covered up these actions,” Genn told the German daily Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung on Saturday. “We need a new division of power – concretely a new relationship between so-called lays and priests, between full-time and volunteers, between men and women in the Catholic Church,” he added. Genn’s comments come as the German Bishops’ Conference prepares for a general meeting in the coming week. The Vatican in Rome has warned the German bishops against going it alone. German bishops, following revelations of the sexual abuse of children by priests, in the spring announced a reform process called the “Synodal Path” that would examine topics including power structures, sexual morality, celibacy and role of women. The Central Committee of German Catholics (ZdK) – a lay body made up of representatives of Catholic organizations – is also taking part in the process. Cardinal Reinhard Marz, who heads the Bishops’ Conference, held talks with Pope Francis on Friday in Rome and asked for understanding. In a statement, he said the two had held a “constructive dialogue” that would flow into the meeting’s consultations next week Source: NAN  Vanguard News HIS Holiness, Pope Benedict stunned the Roman Catholic Church when he announced he would stand down - the first pope to do so in almost 700 years - saying he no longer had the mental and physical strength to carry on. March 1, 2013 In "Viewpoint" FOLLOWING the resignation of the Arch Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Benin, Richard Burke, over alleged sex scandal with a Nigerian woman, Atwood Dolores, the Vatican has appointed Bishop Anthony Gbuji, as the Apostolic Administrator. June 2, 2010 In "News" ...Over indigenous bishop *Why Akabueze won’t quit – Senator Owie, others Since he was appointed as the Archbishop of the Benin Metropolitan See on 18 March, 2011, Augustine Obiora Akubueze has not had peace. Prior to his installation on 28 April, 2011, a group of Binis, under the aegis of… July 27, 2013 In "Metro"