Ahead of the November Governorship election in Kogi, Mr. Umar Bamaiyi of the All Blending Party (ABP) says he has no plan to step down for any candidates contesting the election. Bamaiyi stated this in a statement made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos State on Thursday. According to Bamaiyi, he will not be intimidated by moneybag politicians to jettison his governorship ambition or support the PDP candidate as reported by some sections of the media. Bamaiyi said the mandate he was pursuing was sacrosanct to the development of the state, as such reports of his adoption of a consensus candidate were untrue. He said there was no plan or any arrangement for him to step down for any candidate, advising that such a report should be disregarded. “I have a passion to fix Kogi, which has been there since I was younger. I am working on how this state can achieve the desired greatness. “I am propelled by the appalling situation of this state that in spite of its abundance, we are yet to achieve anything; the older generation has failed the state. “I am aware of some governorship candidates stepping down or the coalition of political parties having a consensus candidate. I won’t step down for anybody, because we don’t have anything in common. “We are in the injury time before the election, so no stepping down. I am not scared, my desire to fix Kogi was the driving point of my governorship ambition,’’ Bamaiyi stressed. Source:  NAN  Vanguard News THE more than eight years incarceration of former Chief of Amry Staff (COAS) Lt. Gen. Ishaya Bamaiyi (retd), was not just punishment for opposing the choice of former President Olusegun Obasanjo as successor to former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, but also to keep him away for fear he… April 4, 2017 In "Headlines" Jos-Residents of Plateau State were last Wednesday treated to a political drama as members of the state executive of All Blending Party, ABP, abandoned their own gubernatorial candidate, Mr Samuel Kyarshik and adopted the candidate of another party, the Action Democratic Party, ADP, General Jon Temlong. December 22, 2018 In "News" THE 1985 palace coup in which former Head of State General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, retd, overthrew General Muhammadu Buhari, current president, was successful because the latter decided to avoid bloodshed. April 3, 2017 In "Politics"