The Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, Sokoto Zonal Office in collaboration with the FBI, recorded a major breakthrough with the arrest of one Emmanuel Adedeji Oluwatosin, who is on the wanted list of the FBI. The EFCC Zonal Head, Abdullahi Lawal, while parading the suspect in Sokoto, explained that the suspect was arrested in Kaduna.
Items recovered from the residence include two cars; Mercedes Benz E550, Mercedes Benz C450, an iPhone, laptops, modem and SIM cards. Lawal added that the suspect and his accomplices both in Nigeria and overseas acquired retirement account information (RAI) and personally identifiable information (PII) of multiple persons which they fraudulently used to wire funds into newly created business bank accounts tied to the fraudulently created business. The proceeds were then converted into crypto currency. The EFCC zonal head also said the preliminary investigation had so far revealed that over N1.4 billion was wired through the suspect’s accounts while he invested over N70 million elsewhere. Efforts are on to recover the money. In a related development, Lawal said the commission arrested a wanted suspect, Muzakkir Muhammad, through a sister agency, in connection with an alleged case of obtaining money under false pretenses and the production of fake currencies. He said the suspect was reported by one of his victims, Abdullahi Ibrahim, after he had defrauded another victim, Samaila Sani, a Bureau de Change operator to the tune of $33,850. “Meanwhile, the first complainant, Ibrahim alleged that Muzakkri Muhammad collected the sum of N2, 350,000 from him on the pretext of producing the $100,000 for him, which he has neither produced nor refunded the Naira equivalent given to him. “However, a search was conducted at his house and several incriminating items which the suspect used in luring and defrauding his victims were recovered. “His method is to make his victims believe that he possesses some form of supernatural abilities of communicating with Spirits, while in the actual sense, they are mere tricks which he uses to deprive them of their hard earnings,” the EFCC zonal head said. Also paraded by the EFCC were four Sokoto local government officials who defrauded civil servants on the payroll of State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) by deducting irregular amount of monies from their salaries since 2013. The Suspects are: Ishaka Abdullahi (Education Secretary), Abdullahi Idris (Deputy Education Secretary), Abdullahi Dadi (Cashier), and Idris Wamabai (Accountant). A late night statement by Wilson Uwujaren, the acting Head of Media and Publicity of EFCC, said that the suspects would soon be charged to court. Vanguard The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has disclosed that the agency is collating comprehensive data on the 77 Nigerians indicted in the recently busted money laundering and cybercrime offences in the United States. August 28, 2019 In "News" The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, has disclosed that the agency is collating comprehensive data on the Nigerians indicted in the recently busted money laundering and cyber crime offences in the United States. August 29, 2019 In "News" The Benin Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) said it arrested no fewer than 113 internet fraud suspects in eight months through its ‘Operation Re-wire’. September 3, 2019 In "News"