Chief Innocent Chukwuma, Chairman, Innoson Group of Companies Nigeria limited, says the Federal government, under President Muhammadu Buhari, has given enormous patronage and support to his firm, Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing (IVM). He also named Enugu, Ebonyi, Ekiti, Imo, Kogi, Anambra, Gombe, and Bauchi as well as Nigeria Military among the states buying Innoson vehicles. Chukwuma said that if patronage is given to his firm, IVM is sustained, the firm could transform Nigeria into vehicle manufacturing hub in Africa in no distant time.  “I can say that Innoson vehicle manufacturing is doing well, especially with the level of patronage and support the company is enjoying under the present Federal government.  “I must equally say that some state governments like; Ekiti, Imo, Enugu, Ebonyi, Kogi, Gombe, Anambra, and Bauchi are giving us a great boost. “As at today, Innoson vehicles are being used in some West African countries like Mali, Sierra Leone, and Ghana and some Nigerians residing abroad return home to purchase our vehicles”, he said.  Chukwuma said that his vehicle factory had the capacity to manufacture all brands of vehicle, adding that he hoped to expand the company, soonest. He said that apart from doing well in production capacity, the company recently employed between 7,300 and 7,500 workers to boost production capacity.  “With more support and patronage from Nigeria, we hope to expand our vehicle manufacturing firm to help provide more employment to our youths.” Chukwuma, who responded to question on the performance of youths from Niger Delta trained under the amnesty programme by his firm, described most of them as highly talented.  “Some of the youth of the Niger Delta whom we trained are very talented, after their training, we retained some of them and they are part of the success story of Innoson vehicle manufacturing can boast of today”, he said. On the recent report that Anambra lawmakers rejected Toyota Prado Jeep and demanded Innoson products, Chukwuma said he knew nothing about the report.  He, however, said “Anybody, including the Anambra lawmakers, is free to buy any brand of his or her choice. “As we speak, the Anambra Government ordered for 40 vehicles which is fully paid for and we hope to deliver them to the state by next week.”  Chukwuma said he enjoyed a very warm relationship with Gov. Willie Obiano and his government, saying that he was willing to leverage the relationship to impact positively on the state. Source: NAN Vanguard News The Federal government has extolled the doggedness of Innosson Motors in vehicle manufacturing and promotion of made in Nigeria products, despite the daunting challenges, saying that the company has put Nigeria on the global map of vehicle manufacturing. June 5, 2017 In "News" IGBOEZUE International Association Nigeria and the Diaspora, IIAND, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to step into alleged intimidation and harassment of Chief Innocent Chukwuma by an agency of the Federal Government. July 19, 2018 In "News" Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has described the Innoson Vehicle Manufacturing Company Limited as a trail blazer in Nigeria’s automotive industry. June 6, 2017 In "News"