ANAMBRA State deputy governor, Dr Nkem Okeke has advocated for the projection of more females into the engineering profession in the country, arguing that engineering was one of the professions where women could thrive if supported. Receiving members of the Association of Nigeria Women Engineers at Government House, Awka, Okeke, who is a fellow of the Nigeria Society of Engineers (FNSE), expressed satisfaction at what he called the fading superstition that female participation in engineering was a taboo. According to him, sensitizing women to understand the profession better would propel more girls to get into the study of engineering to excel in the profession currently dominated by men. He commended the association’s efforts aimed at encouraging young girls into engineering and advancing the professional development of practising female engineers. The chairperson of the association in the state, Mrs Oluchi Okoli said the association had mapped out a programme that would inspire younger females to take up careers in engineering. Already, no fewer than 10 pupils selected from various schools in Enugwu-Ukwu in Njikoka local government area of the state would be sponsored by the association to study from primary school to university level in engineering courses. Vanguard News Nigeria. Determined to take professional women engineers in Nigeria to greater heights, the Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria, APWEN, has brokered a partnership deal that would ensure placements of upcoming female engineers in manufacturing companies when they need to undergo internship in engineering. July 15, 2014 In "Homes & Property" IN the early 70s when engineering was still perceived as the boys’ club, the only black girl studying for a degree in Civil Engineering in one of the world’s most respected institutions, Columbia University, USA, was a Nigerian. That girl is today 65-year-old Engr.(Mrs)Mayen Adetiba, an icon who has led… May 13, 2016 In "Woman's Own" Dr Nkem Okeke, Anambra State Deputy Governor, has appealed to residents of the state to come out en-masse to vote during the March 9 House of Assembly election. March 7, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates"