Rep. Nicholas Ossai (ODP-Delta) Chairman, House of Representatives Committee investigating abandoned projects in the Niger Delta, says that the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emiefele, will appear before the committee on Thursday, Sept. 19. In an interview with journalists in Abuja, Ossai said that the Acting Managing Director and all the Directors in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) would also answer questions on abandoned projects in the oil rich region. “Some of the documents we requested from the CBN has come and we are looking forward to receiving him on Thursday by 12 o’clock. “I believe we might ask one or two questions from the documents we have received, that is what we are going to do, I know the CBN Governor is a law-abiding citizen. “What we did is to protect the interest of the Niger Delta people, who are a part of the people of Nigeria, whose money had been released to do a good job for them by the Federal Government. “The investigation we are conducting will unravel a lot of issues and make sure that some of these contractors go back to the site to execute those jobs abandoned over the years; that is the essence of summons. “So the CBN Governor is going to appear on Thursday including all directors and the Acting MD of NDDC, who is also a Director of a Department,” he said. According to the lawmaker, the essence of this thing is to return contractors to site and for us to get documents. Ossai said that the committee would make sure that contractors that had collected money without going to site will be made to go back to site or the monies recovered. The Rep also said that the committee would ensure that contractors that had executed jobs will be paid by the appropriate authorities. Vanguard News Nigeria ...As Contractors Move to Halt Probe By Tordue Salem - Abuja The House of Representatives ad hoc committee on abandoned Projects in Niger Delta has discovered that a total of 1,723 contractors had collected a total of N70.495 billion without mobilising to the site. Recall that at last week sitting… September 16, 2019 In "News" Abuja —The House of Representatives has commenced enquiry into alleged abandonment of capital projects in Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta and Rivers states. August 27, 2019 In "News" NOT comfortable with the level of abandoned projects of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, by contractors handling some of the jobs, the Senate has summoned the Managing Director of the Commission, Mr. Christian Oboh, to appear before it to explain why this must happen. February 25, 2013 In "News"