Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau on Monday received a report of a five-year strategic development plan from  Boston Consulting Group and said that the document would be a guide for his administration. Lalong had after his reelection engaged the services of the Boston Consulting Group to come up with a strategic plan for the development  of the state. The group immediately swung into action and met with various ministries, departments and agencies as well as other critical stakeholders with the objective of implementing the vision of the governor. The governor said that the document would be a key driver of his final term as he charted a new course for the state where he was determined to develop Plateau into an economically viable State. “My determination is to move the state away from the civil service perception through the creation of many economic  opportunities that are only found in an industrialised and entrepreneurial environment. “With this strategic development plan, we can use our areas of comparative advantage to empower our people and catch up with states like Lagos”. The governor charged the members of his cabinet including those to be appointed  as well as senior civil servants to be conversant with the strategic development plan of his administration. He announced that Plateau would in October host an economic summit as the state continued its drive toward economic rebirth. Dr. Joao Hrotko, Country Director, Boston Consulting Group (BCG),  while presenting the report stated that in his committee’s eight weeks assignment, it held deep discussions with ministries,departments and agencies to arrive at the development plan. Two killed in fresh Plateau attack(Opens in a new browser tab) Hrotko said that the three volumes comprehensive reports contained eight strategic implementable Pillars for the development of Plateau state in the next four years. The country director said that the first volume contained 8 strategic pillars to achieve peace, security and good Governance, infrastructure development sustainable economic rebirth, sustainable ariculture among others. According to him, the second volume has 35 implementation initiatives while the third volume is tagged donor deck with ways for funding projects from foreign investment and donor agencies (NAN). Vanguard By Victor Pam As the campaigns continue to heat the polity, we must be careful about the choices we make because our options can be our albatross, as well as our Messiah. I say this for two reasons, one is because of the empty promises flying around like promissory notes… January 20, 2019 In "Viewpoint" When the pressure persisted, Governor Simon Bako Lalong succumbed.  He said on his declaration, “I am yielding to pressure to declare to re-contest Governorship election in Plateau State.  I know several groups have endorsed me, some have printed posters as a sign of their support…” September 25, 2018 In "News" Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau on Monday granted pardon to six prisoners as the state celebrated the 2017 Democracy Day. May 29, 2017 In "News"