Uganda said on Wednesday it had signed an Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Russia to help the East African country build capacity to exploit nuclear technology for energy, medical and other peaceful purposes. The government of President Yoweri Museveni has previously said it is eager to use the country’s uranium deposits to boost energy production capacity, Reuters reported. In May last year, Uganda also signed a memorandum of understanding with China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC) to help Uganda build capacity in the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. In an emailed statement, Uganda’s energy ministry said the IGA with Russia was signed in Vienna on Tuesday between Energy Minister Irene Muloni and Nikolai Spasskiy, the deputy director-general of Russian state corporation ROSATOM. Under the agreement, the statement said, Russia will help Uganda with development of nuclear infrastructure and production and application of radioisotopes for industrial, healthcare and agricultural use, the Reuters report noted. “Spasskiy expressed the commitment and readiness of ROSATOM to support Uganda’s plans to develop the peaceful use of nuclear energy especially in the nuclear power plant development,” the statement said. Uganda’s energy needs are expected to jump in coming years as it prepares to start producing crude oil in 2022 from fields in its west where reserves of 6 billion barrels were discovered in 2006. Uganda’s ministry of energy and mineral development has previously said the country has substantial deposits of uranium but reserve estimates are not known as the mineral has not been commercially explored. Vanguard Nigeria News. THE Power Africa initiative has continued to lay the foundation for sustainable economic growth in Nigeria and other African countries, as it makes progress towards its goals of increasing installed generation capacity by 30,000MW and adding 60 million new electricity connections by 2030. September 4, 2017 In "Sweet Crude" Nigeria is today, regarded as the biggest economy in Africa. However, its power sector is performing far below the level of an economy of this magnitude. Over half of the population has no access to grid-connected electricity and those who are connected to the grid suffer extensive power outages. April 25, 2018 In "News" RUSSIA and Nigeria have signed agreements on construction and operation of a nuclear power plant and a research centre housing a multi-purpose nuclear research reactor in Nigeria. The parties also signed a roadmap for cooperation in the field of peaceful usage of nuclear technologies. November 8, 2017 In "Technology"