The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila (APC-Lagos) on Friday in Abuja, donated drugs worth over N60 million to the Borno Government for onward distribution to the victims of insurgency in the state. The gesture came after his visit to some Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Maiduguri, Borno State, in July 2019. Gbajabiamila who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Mr Sanusi Rikiji, presented the drugs to the leader of the Borno State Caucus in the House, Rep. Mohammed Monguno (APC-Borno) who received them on behalf of the state government. Gbajabiamila said that the drugs comprised of antibiotics and other essential drugs that would cure infectious diseases. It would be recalled that the Speaker had equally visited the IDPs in Zamfara and Katsina states where he donated items, including drugs and foodstuff. Responding, Monguno thanked the Speaker on behalf of the state Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, saying the gesture would go a long way in ameliorating the health challenges of the IDPs. Monguno said Gbajabiamila is the first Speaker of the House who deemed it fit to visit Borno mainly to feel the plight of the IDPs despite the security situation. Monguno thanked the speaker for being an exemplary leader, assuring home that the Borno  Government would ensure the judicious use of the drugs in a manner that would affect the lives of all the IDPs positively. Vanguard Nigerian News ...to meet IDPs, others By Levinus Nwabughiogu - Abuja Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila is billed to teach at Government Pilot Senior Secondary School, Kofar Sauri on Modaybin Katsina State. This is part of the Speaker's voluntary teaching exercise, which he started in his Surulere 1… September 16, 2019 In "Education" At the beginning of the speakership race, seven contenders emerged: Femi Gbajabiamila, APC, Lagos; Yakub Dogara, APC Bauchi; Pally Iriase, APC, Edo; Tahir Monguno, APC Borno; Ajibola Famurewa, APC, Osun; Abdulmunin Jibrin, APC, Kano and Comrade Peter Akpatason, APC, Edo. But now, it is going to be a straight fight… June 7, 2015 In "News" THIRTY six members of the House of Representatives from the North-East geo-political zone have pledged to support Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila for the position of Speaker of the House of Representatives if the office is zoned to his South-West geopolitical zone. May 18, 2015 In "News"