Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Port Harcourt Zonal Office,  says it has commenced investigation of 58 suspected oil thieves allegedly involved in illegal oil bunkering. The EFCC on its website said  the suspects and vessels were handed over to the EFCC by the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Pathfinder for further investigation and possible prosecution. It was alleged that four vessels, one barge and two wooden boats were recovered from the suspects. The suspects were reported to be on board the vessels when they were intercepted at different dates and locations in Port Harcourt, Rivers, for alleged illegal oil bunkering activities. We have recovered N1Billion from a Nigerian Ponzi scheme fraudster – EFCC(Opens in a new browser tab) The vessels, MV Western Orient, MV Temile, AHT Ajemisan and AHT Jascon 23. Two wooden Boats were intercepted around Onne Anchorage while Barge Hannamarine was intercepted at Okorochiri Creek in Okrika, all in Rivers. Taking over the suspects and the accompanying vessels, barge and wooden boats, Samuel Umezuirike of the EFCC assured the Nigerian Navy of further investigation and possible prosecution. The suspects consisted of two foreigners and 56 Nigerians. The names of the suspects were: Daniel Faviel Flores, a Mexican, Khrstoliubov Victor, a Ukranian, Umoh Emmanuel Etim, Aliu Dominic, Okwong Effiong Ukpong, Talick Uche Epuk, Okon Emmanuel Sunday. Others were,  Ebenezer Marshal; Awuletey Okon, George Obomate, Johnbull Uroro, Alphonomsus Augustine Ufot, Jerome Adele-ekun, Mathew Jacob, Okoye Kachi Fred, Johnwill Austin Omubo, Utibe Peter George, Dickson Amadi, Uzi Chibueze Benard. Israel Essien, Job Wilfred, Emmanuel Joseph Ohwimu, Chinedu Nwachukwu Opara, Pascal Chinedu Nnaji, Okechukwu Chukwueke, Peter Ogar, Olatunji Julius Adedokun, Alabede Maruf Olakunle and Origbo Tekevwe Godwill. Evakpo David, Mbachu Kelvin Okechukwu, Nebeire Onyekachi Philip, Akanbi Oluwaseun Moses, Wonodi Chisom Wisdom, Prince Austine Anyor, Anjorin Rasheed Babatunde and Iffi Francis Chuka. The rest were: Tom Wisdom Udo; Fasina Isaac Kehinde, Edo Nsongurua, Cookey Fubara, Ayoka Joseph, Benson Nwaya, Akinfenwa Mike, Ahmed A Shehu, Okojie Favour Osahon, John Flash, Edward Modunwa, Eyione Alex. Onyeneke Wisdom Udoka, Nwokeke Wisdom Udoka; Nwokeke Michael S.U, Anyasi Joshua Ikechukwu, Edward Atorkemo Harrison, Ekpeno Benjamin, Rafi Nura Sani, Thompson Deezua and Edwin Ekpoto Omaretshogunwa.(NAN) Vanguard The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office, has commenced the investigation of 58 suspected oil thieves; four Vessels, one Barge and two wooden boats allegedly involved in illegal oil bunkering.   The suspects and Vessels were handed over to the EFCC by the Nigerian Navy Ship… September 6, 2019 In "News" No fewer than 57 sailors have been arrested in Rivers by the Nigerian Navy for allegedly smuggling crude oil and illegally refining diesel. August 30, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Navy has intercepted 1.1 million litres of diesel allegedly stolen from pipelines belonging to multinational oil companies in Rivers. August 27, 2017 In "News"