Nigerian Army troops of 22 Brigade Super Camp in Dikwa, Borno State, have dealt heavy blows to Boko Haram terrorists in Gworege village in Dikwa Local Government Area of the state. Col. Sagir Musa, Acting Director, Army Public Relations, in a statement on Sunday, disclosed that the operations was carried out in conjunction with the Civilian Joint Task Force, local vigilantes and hunters. Musa said the operation was carried out following credible information from locals about the presence of terrorists in the village. Wadume: Presidential Investigation Panel Submits Report to Chief of Defence Staff.(Opens in a new browser tab) He explained that there was a successful raid and clearance operations to Gworege community to clear the village of the crouching terrorists reportedly hibernating in the area. The army spokesperson added that the terrorists who engaged the troops in a fire fight, flee as a result of superior fire power from the troops. According to him, the troops consequently cordoned and searched the village and recovered six AK 47 Rifles and 66 numbers of 7.62 MM ammunition. “No soldier was killed, wounded or missing in action. “Unfortunately, a hunter who was wounded, is receiving treatment at the 22 Brigade medical Centre in Dikwa, he has been stabilised and is fast recovering. “Many terrorists reportedly met their waterloo during the encounter, while others escaped with varying degree of injuries,” he said Troops of 114 Task Force Battalion of 28 Task Force Brigade in conjunction with members of vigilante group in an effort to keep the road open and secure, Sunday, carried out a clearance operation along Bitta-Damboa axis, leaving four terrorists dead with scores escaped with gunshot wounds June 20, 2016 In "News" The Nigerian Army on Sunday said soldiers killed 13 suspected Boko Haram members during clearance operations in Bomboshe and Sinbaya in Dikwa Local Government Area of Borno January 15, 2017 In "News" Following credible and confirmed information about the convergence of some elements of suspected Boko Haram terrorists at Jarawa village, Kala Balge Local Government Area, Borno State, troops of 3 Battalion, 22 Brigade Nigerian Army of Operation LAFIYA DOLE, in conjunction with some Civilian JTF today, Sunday 11th June 2017, carried… June 12, 2017 In "News"