Zimbabwe’s former President Robert Mugabe was finally laid to rest in his native village after weeks of disagreement between the family and the government of Zimbabwe on where he would be buried. Mugabe died at the age of 95. He was buried in the courtyard of his home in Kutama, about 90km (55 miles) west of the capital Harare. Mugabe died in a Singapore hospital on 6 September, nearly two years after a coup ended his 37 years in power. His cause of death was reported to be cancer. The Mugabe family decided on a private burial in Kutama after weeks of argument with the government. Ministers had wanted the body to rest at the National Heroes Acre in Harare. A mausoleum for the former president was being constructed at the site, which is reserved for heroes of Zimbabwe’s liberation struggle, according to BBC report. But Mugabe’s family said he had wanted to be buried at his rural home, close to his late mother Bona. No senior government officials were among the audience at a pre-burial service in Kutama on Saturday, which was attended by hundreds of mourners. A sparsely attended state funeral was held for Mugabe in Harare on 14 September. In Kutama, Mugabe’s widow Grace and his children accompanied the coffin, which was draped in the green, yellow, red and black flag of Zimbabwe. Mugabe, a guerrilla leader who fought against white minority rule in what was then Rhodesia, took power after independence from Britain in 1980. Initially lauded as an icon of African liberation, his rule became steadily more repressive as he clamped down on political opponents. According to BBC report, disastrous economic and agricultural policies drove the once-prosperous country into the ground, and millions fled abroad. Mugabe was brought down by army generals in 2017. His deputy Emmerson Mnangagwa was elected president in 2018. Vanguard News Nigeria. The family of the former Zimbabwean president, say they are shocked at not having been consulted by the Zimbabwe government about arrangements for his funeral. Mr Mugabe, who was 95, died last week while undergoing medical treatment in a Singapore hospital. His body is being prepared to lie in state… September 12, 2019 In "Foreign" Robert Mugabe's nephew has said the former Zimbabwean leader died a "very bitter" man. Mr Mugabe, who died aged 95 last week, led Zimbabwe for nearly four decades until he was ousted by a coup in 2017. "Imagine people you trusted - people that were guarding you, looking after you… September 9, 2019 In "Foreign" Close relatives and government officials flew out of Zimbabwe on Monday to collect the body of ex-president Robert Mugabe from Singapore where he died last week, his nephew said. September 9, 2019 In "News"