Algeria will hold a presidential election on December 12, interim President Abdelkader Bensalah said in a televised speech on Sunday, despite demands by protesters to postpone a vote until more of the ruling elite quit office. Weekly mass demonstrations forced veteran president Abdelaziz Bouteflika to resign in April, leaving Algeria in constitutional limbo and facing a stand off between protesters and the army-backed government. “Elections are the only democratic solution to the crisis,” Bensalah said. Reuters reported that the authorities had cancelled an election previously planned for July 4, citing a lack of candidates, amid mass protests demanding the departure of the rest of the old guard including Bensalah and Prime Minister Noureddine Bedoui. But army chief Lieutenant General Ahmed Gaed Salah has repeatedly called for an election as soon as possible, despite the opposition and protesters rejecting a vote. Earlier on Sunday authorities named an independent election authority to organize the vote to replace the interior ministry, which has been in charge of elections over the past years. “This (election) body is a concrete response to demands from our people including those seeking a radical change of the system,” Bensalah said, in an apparent reference to protesters who have been staging weekly demonstrators since Feb. 22. “These changes confirm that the state will go ahead to meet all demands.” The authorities had sought to calm demonstrators by starting the prosecution of Bouteflika’s allies for suspected involvement in corruption cases, the Reuters report stated. Two former prime ministers, two former intelligence chiefs, eight ministers and several prominent businessmen have been put in custody after being questioned by judges as part of anti-graft investigations. Vanguard News. Algeria needs to focus on avoiding economic instability during its political transition after the resignation of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, a senior official at the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said. April 29, 2019 In "News" Algeria’s Interim President, Abdelkader Bensalah, has sacked Justice Minister, Slimane Brahim, the presidential office said on Wednesday without giving an explanation. July 31, 2019 In "News" Algerians waited on Wednesday for a decision by the constitutional council on whether ailing President Abdelaziz Bouteflika is fit for office after the top army officer called for his removal in a bid to defuse mass protests. March 27, 2019 In "News"