Spanish Formula One driver, Fernando Alonso hinted at returning to the sport on Friday following an overhaul of the rules for the 2021 season. But the two-time world champion Spaniard, who ‘retired’ last year after a disappointing spell with McLaren, was enigmatic when asked if he was in contact with any teams. “Let’s see,” he said, during an interview with Sky Sports F1. “I need to figure out a couple of different challenges out of Formula One that I need to complete. “They are not yet finished — like the Indy 500 and some other stuff. So, 2021, with the new regulations… I think it’s a good mix that we can find there and maybe a different Formula One than what we see now. “The reasons why I left last year are still present now with domination of a clear team and the races a little bit too predictable, but in 2021 these things can be changed and maybe it’s a good opportunity.” He declined to give details and, when asked if he was talking to any teams about a comeback, smiled and said: “Always.” Alonso was in the Monza paddock in his role as an ambassador for McLaren. Since leaving F1 last year, he has taken part in a variety of motor racing events, winning the World Endurance Championship in June and making a second bid to triumph at the Indianapolis 500. He said he is now involved in testing in readiness for a possible attempt on the Dakar Rally in January. He admitted that he was apprehensive about the commitment to a 22-race F1 calendar if he made a comeback. “Twenty-two races is non-stop,” he said. “It’s quite demanding. Let’s see… I am getting old!” Alonso, who will turn 39 before a possible return in 2021, said. VANGUARD Fernando Alonso's decision to race at the Indianapolis 500 instead of the Monaco Grand Prix signals Formula One is going back to the future as it redefines its brand and appeal under new American owners. April 13, 2017 In "Sports" Double world champion Fernando Alonso’s departure from Formula One at the end of the season would reflect badly on the sport, fellow-Spaniard Carlos Sainz said on Thursday. October 25, 2018 In "Sports" Two-time world champion Fernando Alonso praised his McLaren team for finishing among the points in Sunday's Australian Grand Prix after switching to Renault engines during the off-season. March 25, 2018 In "News"