Secretary to Kogi State Government, Mrs. Folashade Ayoade-Arike, on Monday entered the witness box to testify at the panel hearing investigating allegations of gross misconduct against the deputy governor of the state, Elder Simon Achuba. The SSG said that the Deputy Governor last attended the state Exco meeting in August 2018 even when the state government was up to date with his salaries. The SSG under cross-examination by lead counsel to Achuba, Jibrin Okutepa (SAN), said she was incompetent to issue a query to the deputy governor, as he is her boss. She stated that while it is not under the schedule of the Office of the SSG to pay the salary of the deputy governor, all workers of the state, including the deputy governor, his (deputy) aides, have however been paid “up-to-date”. Also, the Acting Director (Treasury), Office of the Accountant General, Mr. Elijah Ebinemi, presented before the panel, evidence of salaries/allowances paid to the embattled deputy governor. The certified true copies of said payment were said to have covered between 2016 and 2017. Others who testified was the Cashier, Office of the Deputy Governor, Saliu Itopa who under cross-examination by Mr. Anthony Adeniyi, lead counsel to state government explained that allowances and other monies, including imprest are paid direct into the bank accounts of those concerned. The committee has two months left to conclude the investigation of the Deputy Governor. Vanguard BY BOLUWAJI OBAHOPO, LOKOJA The prospects of the All Progressives Congress, APC in Kogi State may have been further clouded by the faceoff between Governor Yahaya Bello and his deputy, Elder Simon Achuba. The faceoff came to national recognition after Achuba addressed a press conference last weekend where he opened… February 19, 2019 In "News" All is not rosy between Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello and deputy governor, Simon Achuba. Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in the state, Mr. Achuba has chosen to come out of his shell to let the world know how terrible things have been for the North-Central state in… August 10, 2019 In "News" Kogi State Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba, has issued a seven-day notice to Governor Yahaya Bello to pay all his benefits from 2017 till date, amounting to N819,709,980.00, or face legal action. July 25, 2019 In "News"