Hong Kong’s Government on Monday warned foreign governments not to interfere in the city’s “internal affairs,” following weekend protests that called for U.S. support in the three-month-old crisis. In a statement, the government also condemned “the illegal behaviour of the radical protesters’’ after violent clashes overnight between some protesters and police. The continued protests in the Asian financial hub came despite the city’s leader, Chief Executive Carrie Lam, last week formally withdrawing the controversial extradition bill that had triggered the crisis. ALSO READ: More Americans will die if Trump cancels peace talks – Taliban The bill would have allowed the extradition of criminal suspects to mainland China. Since protests began on June 9, they have escalated into mass anti-government demonstrations with demands including calls for electoral reform. Protesters have said they will continue to demonstrate until their demands are met. On Sunday, tens of thousands of Hong Kong residents marched to the U.S. consulate to deliver a petition asking the U.S. Congress to sign a bill containing punitive measures for officials found to have suppressed “basic freedoms”. Later in the day, police fired tear gas and non-lethal bullets at anti-government protesters as demonstrations escalated across the city. Vanguard Hong Kong’s airport cancelled all flights on Monday, with authorities blaming demonstrators for the disruption of one of the world’s busiest terminals, a dramatic escalation of anti-government protests that have roiled the Asian financial hub. August 12, 2019 In "News" Riot police in Hong Kong fired sustained volleys of tear gas canisters and rubber bullets on Sunday during hours of running battles with pro-democracy protesters close to Beijing's office in the city, plunging the financial hub deeper into crisis. July 28, 2019 In "News" THIS week has been one of the most dramatic in Kashmir, India, and certainly in Hong Kong where protests and a general strike locked down the city resulting in train disruptions and cancellation of over 100 flights. Also, the protesters carried the fight to police stations and barracks. August 9, 2019 In "News"