Just as many Nigerian entertainment stars have voiced their minds on the barbaric xenophobic attacks being unleashed on Nigerians and other foreign nationals in South Africa, Nollywood leading lady, Genevieve has joined the party but instead of being intemperate like many others, the ‘Lionheart’ star has elected to go philosophical. Speaking on the development, she stated that South Africans had shown Nigerians countless times who they were. The super star, on her Instagram page, wrote “A life with us isn’t the worse thing. They need to see one without us. They’ve shown us countless times who they are. Let’s believe them.“It’s time to show them who we are. Xenophobia: Vandalised MTN office in Mararaba, Abuja (PHOTOS)(Opens in a new browser tab) But most importantly, it’s time we believed in ourselves. They see our potential; our greatness. We need to see it too.“It’s tough out here I know, but sooner than later we’ll have to realize it’s all we’ve got. We have to make sure our energy and resources are beneficial to all things here.“We can’t ignore the signs much longer. Change is inevitable. Let us stay ahead of it. Long live Nigeria.” Tiwa Savage in the same vein has also cancelled her musical show scheduled to hold in South Africa. Vanguard Nwafor Sunday: Nigerian federal government has warned its citizens to desist from travelling to volatile and high risk areas in South Africa, pending when the xenophobic issue is put to bed. September 4, 2019 In "News" When videos of fresh attacks, looting, burning of foreigners, businesses and properties belonging to foreigners, (including Nigerians) went viral on social media on Sunday, controversial Dubai-based billionaire Nigerian, Ray Hushpuppi, expressed anger at Nigerian celebrities for failing to exploit their celebrity status in nipping the incessant attacks on Nigerians in… September 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" Popular Nigerian celebrities, including Toke Makinwa, Funke Akindele, Mo Abudu, amongst others, have condemned the incessant attacks on Nigerians and other Africans in South Africa. September 3, 2019 In "News"