More than 125 migrant mothers and children have sued the United States (US) government, claiming the Trump administration has violated the rights of asylum-seekers through the arbitrary and capricious implementation of a virtual asylum ban at the southern border. The lawsuit, filed late on Monday, was the first to challenge President Donald Trump over asylum since the US Supreme Court decided last week that an anti-asylum rule will be allowed to take effect while a separate lawsuit on its underlying legality is heard, according to Reuters report. Unlike other suits that have targeted the asylum rule itself, the latest filing challenges the Trump administration on procedural grounds, saying the government has enacted changes without warning, resulting in elevated rejection rates for asylum-seekers. With the administration rolling out a series of anti-immigration regulations in rapid succession, asylum-seekers are not being told which of the shifting standards will apply to their cases, said Hassan Ahmad, the lead attorney on the lawsuit. “What we’re challenging is the haphazard lack of legal procedure. There’s no rhyme or reason to it,” Ahmad said. The plaintiffs are 126 women and children from 59 families, mostly from the impoverished and violent Central American countries of El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, who were rejected in the early stages of the asylum process while staying at the South Texas Family Residential Center in Dilley, Texas. The suit was filed in US District Court in Washington, D.C. Vanguard Nigerian News. US President Donald Trump said Tuesday he won't resume separating children of undocumented migrants, but added that the policy does prevent people from treating illegal border crossings like a trip to "Disneyland." April 9, 2019 In "News" The Pentagon is deploying 5,200 active-duty troops to beef up security along the US-Mexico border, officials announced Monday, in a bid to prevent a caravan of Central American migrants from illegally crossing the frontier. October 30, 2018 In "News" Hundreds of Central American migrants who tried to force through a Mexican police blockade into the United States retreated to a nearby camp Monday after US border agents pushed them back with tear gas and rubber bullets. November 26, 2018 In "News"