Nigeria has been re-elected as a Part 2 member of the International Civil Aviation organisation (ICAO) Council for a new three year term. In a statement issued yesterday by James Odaudu, Director of Public Affairs, Federal Ministry of Aviation, Nigeria garnered 151 votes out of the 193-member states, 18 more than it did in 2016. Reacting to the feat, Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika said the continued success and recognition of the country in all issues relating to the world aviation governing body only goes to show that Nigeria is on course in its transformation agenda for the aviation sector. According to Sirika, “the re-election of Nigeria into the ICAO Council will further spur it to push for the attainment of the ideals and objectives of the organization, as it has always done, with a stronger commitment to the implementation of the Aviation sector development roadmap of the Buhari administration. Bringing Nigeria Airways looters to justice(Opens in a new browser tab) Also reacting to the re-election, the Country Representative on the ICAO Council, Captain Nuhu Musa described it as a momentous occasion for the country, as “it shows the growing influence and popularity of Nigeria within the global aviation industry. The International Civil Aviation Organization is a specialized agency of the United Nations. It changes the principles and techniques of international air navigation and fosters the planning and development of international air transport to ensure safe and orderly growth. Vanguard The 152 International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) member states have voted for Nigeria to secure a Council Seat in the Part II Category. Capt. Hadi Sirika, Minister of State, Aviation, confirmed the development in a statement obtained by pressmen in Lagos on Tuesday. October 4, 2016 In "News" AS Nigeria hosts International Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, said he was under serious pressure from Nigerians to establish a national airline. November 21, 2017 In "News" By Dirisu Yakubu The efforts of the Nigerian government in transforming the aviation sector yesterday received international recognition as the country received the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Council President's Certificate on progress in aviation. The award which took place in Montreal, Canada, according to a statement on Tuesday night… September 25, 2019 In "Aviation"