Seun ‘S B’ Bankole is gearing up to stage a groundbreaking event in Lagos tagged ‘S B Live Invibe Concert’. The event is scheduled to hold on Sunday, 6th of October, 2019 in partnership with Eyecandy /1908 Connect, an event and concert production agency. According to the organisers, the SB Live Invibe concert (SLIC) will present a line-up of fabulous entertainment and other fun-filled activities. The event will launch a series of music programs targeted at promoting and celebrating Seun Bankole (S B) the acclaimed, live band king of this generation. The event will also feature top music stars in the Nigerian music industry. READ ALSO: I didn’t become a star overnight – Femi Solar SB on his part revealed that a sizeable part of the concert proceeds will go to a ‘Benevolence Fund’ for gifted less privileged through the S B Live Foundation. “The concert is billed to be the ‘largest all-in-one music concert in Nigeria’, as it will attract individuals, government, corporate organizations, while generating international exposure to experience vibrant and breathtaking music performances,” he said. The talented music artiste will also be going on a musical tour in the United States this September before the concert. S B who graduated from Lagos Polytechnic where he studied Banking and Finance has more than a decade long experience, as a versatile musician and leader of his unique band, SB Live Band. He expanded his tentacles into the world of Hip-Hop with a fusion of different kinds of music. The energetic artiste whose newly released song “Orire” is currently topping the charts, also featured 9ICE in his evergreen song “Gbemileke”. VANGUARD The talented crossover artist, Seun Bankole and his SB Live Crew have signed a year musical tour of the United States of America with a US-based music promotional company, Glory International Music and Arts Promotions USA under the leadership of the music promotion legend, Otunba Prince Adeniyi Shobaloju. April 9, 2017 In "Entertainment" The annual premium music concert party tagged Lasgidi All-Stars (#LAS2017) is set to take centre stage this weekend (Sunday, 28th May) at the Hard Rock Cafe Victoria Island and it is expected to coincide with the closing activities for Lagos @50 celebrations. May 28, 2017 In "Entertainment" For the Nigerian music industry 2017 resonated with series of melodramatic dynamics which eventually culminated in what could be described as a fun year. And as it wraps up Showtime recalls with nostalgic feelings artiste concerts that rocked the industry. December 30, 2017 In "Music"