THE Minister of Youths and Sports Department, Mr. Sunday Dare on Wednesday said that Stadia maintenance for facilities with dilapidated infrastructure will require about N1.2 billion. This is even as he said that most of these stadiums don’t belong to the Federal Government and that the ministry intends to seek funding to revive facilities in the stadia. The Minister disclosed this to State House correspondents at the end of the Federal Executive Council, FEC, meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa. Abuja. He further revealed that the President will host African Games medalists D’Tiger and D’Tigeress He said that letters have been written and a decision will soon be taken on the appropriate date for the reception. Dare said that Morocco outing will serve as a benchmark for the 2020 Olympics preparation. He noted that Team Nigeria finished second at Rabat, Morocco behind Egypt at the just concluded African Games and Nigeria won a total of 121 medals: 46 gold medals, 33 silver and 47 bronze medals. He said that Team Nigeria only had seven weeks to prepare for the African Games in Morocco and that Nigeria would have done better if it had a longer period to prepare. “So there is a lesson learnt from there,” he said. He said the athletes will leave for the Doha meet on Saturday and that the outcome will determine Nigeria’s performance in the 2020 June Olympics in Tokyo. Towards preparation for the Olympics, he said that the various federations have started submitting their camping plans. He also said that there is plan to ensure that coaches get the required training. VANGUARD Stadia maintenance  The Minister of Youths and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare has said that the facilities in the Nation's leading stadia in Lagos, Kaduna, Ibadan and Enugu will be upgraded through Public-Private partnership August 27, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has restated his commitment to developing basketball further in Nigeria. September 10, 2019 In "News" Prof. Asarf Sobhy, Egypt’s Minister for Youths and Sports, says the six stadia for the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, will be ready by mid-May. April 19, 2019 In "Sports"