Boris Johnson is expected to unveil plans for a new Brexit deal next week to ensure the UK leaves the European Union before the looming October 31 deadline. Talks with the EU have shown little sign of progress with both sides refusing to change their position on the Irish backstop. And Boris Johnson faces a race against time to rush through an agreement with Brussels and get it approved by Parliament. ALSO READ: EU gives Britain ’12 days’ to decide on Brexit Today, Sky News’ Adam Parsons has tweeted that Boris Johnson’s negotiating team will have ‘concrete Brexit proposals’ next week. The Brussels correspondent tweeted: ‘Sources say the UK will submit “concrete proposals” for a Brexit deal after Tory Party conference (which ends on October 2nd), but in time to be scrutinised before the European Council, which starts on October 17th.’ BREAKING: Sources say UK will submit “concrete proposals” for a Brexit deal after Tory Party conference (which ends on October 2nd), but in time to be scrutinised before the European Council, which starts on October 17th. — Adam Parsons (@adamparsons) September 27, 2019   Earlier this month, MPs forced through a law which compels Johnson to seek an extension to Brexit unless he agrees on a deal by October 19 or secures Parliament’s approval to leave without an agreement. He called the law a ‘Surrender Act’ and shocked colleagues when he said the best way to honour murdered Labour MP Jo Cox would be to ‘get Brexit done’. Today the PM again refused to apologise for his language during heated exchanges when MPs returned to the House of Commons. Parliament resumed this week after the Supreme Court ruled his decision to suspend Parliament for five weeks was unlawful. Boris Johnson said the country’s social tensions were being caused by Britain’s failure to leave the EU more than three years after voting to do so. He said: “Once you do that, then so much of the heat and the anxiety will come out of the debate. ‘Get it done and then we will all be able to move on.” Boris Johnson has reportedly been given just 12 days to present the European Union with a viable Brexit deal or prepare for a No Deal Brexit. The Prime Minister has been given until September 30 to submit an alternative to the Irish border backstop in writing to Brussels. The ultimatum… September 19, 2019 In "Foreign" British Prime Minister Boris Johnson took power Wednesday with an array of issues looming large -- from resolving Brexit amid growing uncertainty to managing an unfolding geopolitical crisis with Iran. July 24, 2019 In "Foreign" Boris Johnson will take office on Wednesday as British Prime Minister and will unveil the names of the team he has tasked with delivering Brexit by the end of October, with or without a deal. July 24, 2019 In "Foreign"