The Olowu of Owu Kuta kingdom in Osun, Oba Hammed Makama, has told Nigerians in South Africa to return home immediately, rather than waiting to be killed in xenophobic attacks. The traditional ruler gave the advice in a statement given to newsmen in Lagos on Tuesday. He said it was regrettable that in spite of Nigeria’s show of brotherliness and support to South Africa during the apartheid era, the same gesture had not been reciprocated toward Nigerians living in that country. “It is unbelievable that a country we stood behind like Rock of Gibraltar and donated $3 million of our hard-earned resources to fight apartheid could turn around and treat us with disdain and unwarranted attacks and killings like we are witnessing now. “That a country that enjoys tremendous support and has multi-billion investments such a DSTV, MTN, just to mention a few in Nigeria could be killing our people leaves much to be desired.” He said the pre-meditated attacks were fuelled by inciting statements of some top South African politicians against Nigerians. Lamenting that the killings had continued unabated, he called on well-meaning Nigerians and influential groups such as Ohaneze Ndigbo, Afenifere and the labour unions to rise up and speak out against the orgy of violence on Nigerians. The monarch also appealed to the Federal Government to step up efforts to stop the attacks to avert reprisals, which he said, might lead to a serious diplomatic row between the two countries. Vanguard A highly respected traditional ruler in Yorubaland, the Olowu of Owu Kuta, Oba Hammed Adekunle Makama Oyelude, has called for total support for the Nigerian Army on the war against terrorism. December 13, 2018 In "News" THE journey so far after three years as monarch Three years down the line as the Olowu Kuta, all glory to God Almighty. I have been having it easy. With the help of God, my friends and teeming supporters, I have been having a smooth sail. July 24, 2015 In "News" Ahead of the 2019 general elections, former President  Olusegun Obasanjo on Saturday urged Nigerians to vote for credible candidates who will drive growth and development. December 8, 2018 In "News"