A schoolgirl who is ‘too big’ for her school uniform according to her school management has been forced to sit in isolation or stay at home because her skirt doesn’t match uniform requirements. MailOnline relates Kada Jones, 14, school resumption story. She returned to school after the summer holidays to begin her first term in Year 10, but due to her size she has to wear a different skirt to the one suggested by her school. Instead of the grey pleated knee-length skirts the school requires, Kada wore a grey size 24-26 skirt from Aldi, which according to MailOnline report she wore last year without complaint. But this year, the 14-year-old found herself being removed from classes at Portchester Community School in Fareham, Hants, and told that if she didn’t wear the regulation skirt, she would be forced to either study in isolation, or stay at home. The school’s headteacher insists that the skirt does not match school regulations. In an act of defiance, Kada went into school on Wednesday and even attended two of her morning lessons, before the school removed her from the classroom. Kada, who is studying geography, health and social care, history and art alongside the core GCSE subjects, is heartbroken by how she has been treated by the school. She said: “I’ve been crying for the past five days – I don’t understand, I’ve done nothing wrong. “People get put in isolation because they have done something wrong; they’ve been treating me like I’m not even a human being. “ll I want to do is go to school.” Kada’s mother, 54-year-old Carleen Jones, says her daughter is medically healthy, and is ‘fuming’ that the school has changed its mind on her skirts. She said: “Kada was in the headmaster’s maths class last year, and he never raised an issue with her skirt. “If she was dressed like a punk rocker or something I would understand, but this skirt is similar to the school ones and is absolutely fine.” Richard Carlyle, headteacher at Portchester Community School, says all schoolchildren must abide by the same rules. “It’s about the skirt being the appropriate length and appropriate material. “Miss Jones” skirt wasn’t quite up to school regulations in terms of length, but the school is working to find a uniform that is compliant. “Pupils have a duty to wear the uniform respectfully and with dignity.” Portchester Community School currently has 633 students and was rated ‘Good’ by Ofsted in 2018. Vanguard News. I remember when I was in secondary school where I had to cut my hair and I was told what to wear, I felt bad about it and was sad. I believe, yes, we should think about the environment where we are in, where we work, where we are going… June 15, 2017 In "News" “Tell them you opt to marry your son, Afamefune. It’s allowed by the customs of the land for widows to opt to marry their sons in these circumstances. That provision of the tradition has not been invoked in a long while, but it’s there and remains very valid. Go ahead… July 29, 2017 In "BOOK SERIAL" But I believe they’ll not forsake their blood,” Amina said. August 11, 2017 In "BOOK SERIAL"