Nigerian radio host and presenter Ifedayo Olarinde, popularly known as Daddy Freeze, has shared his thoughts on former and current participants of the popular reality TV show, Big Brother Naija. During a recent talk show on Cool FM, the controversial figure disclosed that participants of the reality show are not known to win with intellectual prowess. “You know I’m not too knowledgeable when it comes to politics. I have few peripheral ideas, but maybe there’s someone out there listening who can actually talk about Robert Mugabe. I want to take a call for and against if I have intelligent people listening because most people are watching Big Brother. If you want to watch intelligent contestants, watch Who Wants to Be a Millionaire. People in Big Brother are not known to win Big Brother with intellectual prowess,” he said. Speaking more clearly, he pointed out to Efe, the winner of the 2017 BBNaija reality TV show. “Take a look at Efe. I’m not seeing anything. So, what are they in Big Brother house for? They are in there to entertain us. Benzema header beats Sevilla to breathe life back into Real Madrid(Opens in a new browser tab) He also stressed that the problem with Nigeria is that we are laced with too much entertainment. “The problem is, all we do in this part of the world, all day and all night is get entertained. Our pastors entertain us, Big Brother entertains us, our politicians entertain us, blogs entertain us, and we entertain each other. We are not going to get out of this country by entertaining one another,” he said Vanguard Hip hop singer, Obinna Kelvin Anyanwu, better known as Waconzy in the music industry, has taken a snipe at On-Air-Personality, Ifedayo Olarinde, a.k.a Daddy Freeze, calling him demon, who is out to destroy the body of Christ, which is the church. March 31, 2019 In "Entertainment" For berating reggae maestro, Majek Fashek with reckless abandon on Tuesday, for performing at Commonwealth of Zion Assembly’s Christmas Concert, popular radio presenter, Ifedayo Olarinde, also known as ‘Daddy Freeze, incurred the wrath of Majek’s manager, Omenka Uzoma Day, who threatened  to deal with him if he ever dares to repeat such a… December 23, 2017 In "Entertainment" Tasha’s boyfriend, popularly known as King Ladi has pleaded with Big Brother Naija reality show to quickly wrap up the programme so he can be with his boo. August 31, 2019 In "Entertainment"