“This tournament is about sport development. Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria is very keen on ensuring sport development among its staff, staff’s children and non-staff. “Tennis is just an aspect of what FAAN cherishes. But it’s also financing football too. You can see that the facility here is just been upgraded and by all standards, we intend to sustain the development,” Mukhtar said. While speaking on the plans of FAAN Tennis Club to discover and nurture more talents in different age categories, the vice-chairman said the club would continue to organize events and training for talented kids. He said, “We need to get them(children) encouraged by giving out kits and exposing them to more training facilities. The sixth edition of the tournament was held at FAAN Quarters, Ikeja, Lagos. During the final of the tournament, Dele Badejo, Tournament Director and the Coach explained the reasons behind the tourney. “We focus on children’s tournament so that we can catch them young and impart the skills of the game into the kids to become world champions tomorrow. “As a coach, I have taken it upon myself to monitor the progress of these children and continue to encourage them at every given opportunity.” One of the parents who spoke to journalists, Mr. Tunde Agunbiade, said: “this tourney is wonderful and the kids need this type of competition to develop themselves physically and mentally.” Agunbiade later appealed to all tiers of governments to inculcate flexible sporting activities into the primary and secondary schools’ curricular. Christian Olanrewaju, a 13-year-old girl, lauded the organizers for molding raw tennis talents in the state. The Winner of under-14, boys’ tournament; Taofeek Mogaji thanked the organizers and promised to do more in subsequent tournaments. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Lagos State Tennis Association, Tokunbo Agoro, has commended the FAAN Tennis Club for organizing the 6th edition of the tourney. “In Lagos State, we are trying to make sure that every kid must be in school to have a good chance of playing tennis. Also, we intend to create a central tennis time table for the competitions so that one tourney will not clash with other,” Agoro explained. In Under-12 (Girls) competition, Okajare Sunmisola defeated Osayunwan O Jael (5-7,6-5,10-8) While Michael Nekekpemi defeated Happy Agbi in three sets ( 6-3, 3-6, 10-6) in the boys’ category. For Under-14 (Girls), Blessing Otu thrashed Esther Marshal in two straight sets(6-3, 6-1). Taofeek Mogaji defeated Jimoh Joseph (7-5, 6-3) to claim the title in the Under-14 category(Boys)  Vanguard News The Federal Airports Authority (FAAN) Tennis Club, Ikeja has called on the sport authorities to upgrade of all sporting facilities in the country to enhance sport development. September 20, 2019 In "News" THE recent certification of  Murtala Muhammed International Airport, MMIA, Lagos, by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, NCAA, after many years of operating flight operations without International Civil Aviation Organisation, ICAO, certification is a sign that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, is making efforts to make travellers in and… September 29, 2017 In "Aviation" Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, during the weekend graduated another batch of 227 Aviation Security (AVSEC), Aerodrome Rescue and Fire Fighting Service (ARFFS) cadets. September 25, 2017 In "News"