The automatic employment of 37 graduating students of the Yobe College of Nursing and Midwifery by the State Government has excited residents. The residents told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews on Friday in Damaturu that the measure would boost manpower to combat maternal and infant mortality in the state. They commended Gov. Mai Mala Buni for concentrating on people-oriented programmes and projects, most especially healthcare delivery.
Alhaji Aliyu Ibrahim, a parent to one of the beneficiaries, said “the health sector is a key area in dire need of manpower and this employment would improve the manpower. “Yobe is lucky to have a pragmatic governor whose attention lies with the interests of the people as we have seen in the last 100 days of Gov. Buni’s administration”.  Malam Mustapha Kime, a civil servant, said lack of employment has been a very disturbing issue in Nigeria. “Gov. Buni deserves commendation for employing the graduates. “The administration’s commitments in education, healthcare and agriculture are gradually moving the state away from the bottom of the development ladder,” he said.
Another resident, Mr Hassan Damaturu said: “it is a welcome development but they should be posted to the remote areas to assist pregnant women in labour to serve and justify the employment”. He cautioned against the over-concentration of medical workers in the cities while the demand for their service was higher in the rural areas.
On her part, Malama Hadiza Musa, one of the graduates, commended the governor for the employment and promised to justify the confidence reposed in her.
“We (the beneficiaries) must justify this goodwill by Gov. Mai Mala who offered us automatic employment without going into the labour market to search for employment,” Hadiza said. Ms Nana Musa, a sister to the graduate, said “the joy of our family and others knew no bounds as we now have one of us employed to support her siblings and parents’’.  Vanguard News By Mohammed Mamman, Damaturu The Yobe government will partner the North East Development Commission (NEDC) in accelerating the resettlement and rehabilitation of communities displaced by the insurgency in the state. Gov. Mai Mala Buni stated this on Friday when the chairman and members of the commission paid him a courtesy… September 20, 2019 In "News" The Federal Ministry of Environment says 35 per cent of Nigeria’s landmass has been eroded by desertification with more areas still threatened. August 22, 2019 In "News" Governor Ibrahim Gaidam , of Yobe state, has advised the youths to use their permanent voters card ( PVC) , wisely and vote APC in all elective position in the state in 2019 general election . November 10, 2018 In "News"