As a testimony to Governor Godwin Obaseki’s pension reforms for the benefit of the state’s workforce, Edo State has been listed among the top seven states in Nigeria that are up to date with remittances into the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). The rating is contained in the Second Quarter 2019 Report of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), which listed Edo State alongside Delta, Ekiti, FCT, Jigawa, Kaduna and Lagos as up-to-date in their remittance of pension fund deductions from the salaries of their employees as well as in remitting their own part of contributions into the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) of their employees as mandated by the CPS. ALSO READ: FG to assess MDAs through website ranking — DG, BSPR Under the Governor Obaseki-led administration, Edo State has migrated the state’s workers to the CPS, ensuring that workers benefit from the numerous advantages of the scheme. The governor has also continued to clear arrears owed pensioners by previous administrations in the state, while the government has presented no less than N50m to the next-of-kin of deceased beneficiaries under the Contributory Pension Scheme since the commencement of the scheme in 2017. Obaseki is also setting up modalities to enrol local council workers into the CPS to enable them to benefit from the improved scheme. 28 other states listed by PenCom’s Report for non-remittance of both pension deducted from their workers’ salaries and contributions to the RSAs of their workers include Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Oyo, Osun, Ondo and Ogun states. Other defaulting states are Anambra, Rivers, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Borno, Gombe, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto, Taraba and Zamfara. Section 1.3.2 Section 2 (1) of the Pension Reform Act 2004 (PRA), 2014 provides that CPS should apply to any employee in the public service of the federation, the public service of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the public service of the state government, the public service of the local government councils and the private sector. According to the PenCom Report, “State governments continued to make progress in the level of implementation of the CPS. As at the second quarter of 2019, a total of 25 states of the federation have enacted pension laws on the CPS; seven states are at the bill stage and five have, however, embarked on pension reform other than the CPS.” Vanguard ONE of the major challenges facing the Contributory Pension Scheme, CPS, is the issue of poor remittance by private sector employers. In this interview with the Acting Director-General of the National Pension Commission, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, she gives insight into how the commission is addressing the challenge, among other… April 10, 2019 In "Interview" The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Edo State has said reforms being implemented by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration to transform the state's civil service are responsible for the industrial harmony enjoyed in the state and have endeared the governor more to workers. August 21, 2019 In "News" Reports emanating from the Pension industry in Nigeria has revealed that 28 out of the 36 states are yet to fully embrace the contributory pension scheme, CPS, introduced over nine years ago following the Pension Reform Act, PRA, 2004. February 6, 2014 In "Insurance and You"