The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has on Sunday alleged that there is another plan to attack Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s residence at Isiama Afaraukwu Ibeku Umuahia, Abia State. The group in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful cried to the international community and civilised citizens across the world to assist the group to put a stop on the proposed attack. IPOB replies Anthony Nwoko who accused Nnamdi Kanu, of collecting money from APC govt(Opens in a new browser tab) The statement reads thus: “Another round of genocide looms at the front of our leader’s compound in Isiama Afaraukwu Ibeku Umuahia, Abia State by a terror group. “IPOB intelligence unit is gathering information on killer squad stationed in front of our leader’s compound in Isiama Afaraukwu, the ancestral home of our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu tonight. “The assassins in a white Toyota Hilux loitering in front of our leader’s house in Isiama-Afaraukwu tonight better retrace their steps. “We are calling on international community and civilised citizens across the world to be aware and prevail upon the perpetrators to withdraw their killer squad in front of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s compound.” Recall that Kanu’s residence was attacked in 2017 by alleged Nigerian soldiers who are on a security exercise in the South East, called ‘Operation Python Dance’ Biafra: Lawyer files criminal complaint against Kanu at ICC, seeks arrest warrant(Opens in a new browser tab) It was reported that about 28 members of IPOB lost their lives. Kanu however accused the Nigerian Army of invading and killing his members at his residence. In a rebuttal, the Nigerian Army distanced self from the allegation, noting that such never happened. “There was no surrounding of Nnamdi Kanu’s residence. It is not true,” said army spokesman Sani Usman. Vanguard The Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday denied that the organization was either a terrorist or military group, saying that the members had always preached non-violence in all their activities. September 16, 2017 In "News" THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, has raised alarm over an alleged collaboration between the Federal and Abia State governments to continue to unleash terror through harassment and intimidation against the people of Afaraukwu, Ibeku Umuahia,the home town of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. January 10, 2018 In "News" ENUGU—THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, on weekend condemned the Federal Government for allegedly invading the country home of their leader, Nnamdi Kanu again through security agencies that have been parading Afaraukwu Village Square, Umuahia, Abia State. September 10, 2018 In "News"