President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday in New York alerted World Leaders on attempts by international criminal groups to cheat Nigeria of billions. The president raised the alarm while presenting the country’s National Statement as the fifth speaker on the first day of the General Debate during the 74th Session of the UN General Assembly (UNGA74). According to him, the present Nigerian government is facing the challenges of corruption head-on. ALSO READ: 13.2m out of school children: SERAP drags FG to ICC Buhari said: “We are giving notice to international criminal groups by the vigorous prosecution of the P&ID scam attempting to cheat Nigeria of billions of dollars.” While holding social media outlets responsible for fuelling major crimes such as mass killings, Buhari called on major tech companies to be alive to their responsibilities. “They cannot be allowed to continue to facilitate the spread of religious, racist, xenophobic and false messages capable of inciting whole communities against each other, leading to loss of many lives. “This could tear some countries apart,” he said. Buhari also declared that “no threat is more potent than poverty and exclusion,” noting that, “they are the foul source from which common criminality, insurgency, cross-border crimes, human trafficking and its terrible consequences draw their inspiration.” The Nigerian leader described poverty “as one of the greatest challenges facing our world.” Buhari noted that “its eradication is an indispensable requirement for achieving sustainable development,” while highlighting his administration’s efforts to overcome the challenge. On the 2019 presidential elections, he said: “our people backed the politics of tolerance, inclusion and community over the politics of protest and division.” Buhari, in his mission statement which was made available to newsmen in Abuja, reaffirmed Nigeria’s position on certain issues which impinge on global peace, security, progress, democracy and development. Vanguard PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday in New York stated that the vigorous prosecution of the Process and Industrial Development Limited, P&ID scam allegedly attempting to cheat Nigeria of billions of dollars serves as a warning to international criminal groups. September 24, 2019 In "News" Nigeria's President Muhammadu Buhari and other world leaders addressed the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York. Vanguard September 24, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja on Sunday for New York, United States, to participate in the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74) which opened on Tuesday, Sept. 17. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on… September 19, 2019 In "News"