The vice presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Mr. Peter Obi, has called on South Africans to stop the attacks on foreigners, including Nigerians. This was contained in a statement by his media office. Obi  reminded the South African government about Nigeria’s support during the Apartheid struggle and insisted that what Nigeria needs from them at all times are  love and accommodation. He added that now is the time for Nigerians in South Africa   to unite and protect one another from those he called “criminals on rampage.” He said other nationals in foreign lands, such as Indians and the Jews, absorb the catastrophes of life because they were always together. Xenophobic attacks: Defend yourself or come back home – Ohanaeze youths(Opens in a new browser tab) He recalled his visit to South Africa in 2015 when the country experienced a similar attack, noting that he was saddened that such was repeating itself, especially when some high-ranking South African politicians he  held meetings with during the trip assured him that South African government would be proactive towards preventing a repeat. Obi said what the South Africans were doing are pathetic and regrettable considering that a lot of their nationals were in Nigeria and other countries of the world doing various businesses without anybody ever harassing them. “Such attacks would for long remain a clog in the wheel of African Union,” Obi concluded. Vanguard THERE has been jubilation in most parts of Igboland following the nomination of former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, as the vice presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, for the 2019 general election, despite opposition by a group led by the governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Dave… October 17, 2018 In "News" Former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, has called on South-Africans to stop the attack on foreigners, including Nigerians. April 22, 2015 In "News" Enugu —Governors and other leaders of the Peoples’ Democratic Party, PDP, in the South East zone stirred controversy last week when they rejected the choice of the former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi as the running mate to the Presidential candidate of the party in the 2019 general… October 20, 2018 In "News"