The Lagos state government has said that justice would be served on those found guilty in the case of the baby factory. Reacting to the development, The governor, through the commissioner for information and strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, vowed that the state government would fish out illegal operators of the baby factory and would not condone such acts in the state. According to Omotoso, “There are rules guiding the setting up of such maternity homes. Of course, the state government is not in support of any illegality. Unregistered homes will not be given any chance to operate and when they are caught they will be taken to court and will never be covered.” The commissioner who assured that justice would be done in the case of the baby factory urged residents to continue to provide useful information to relevant authorities for appropriate actions. Vanguard had reported that the Police in Lagos have uncovered a building in Isheri Osun area of the state used as a baby factory, rescuing 19 pregnant ladies between ages 15 and 28. Arrested, were two women: Happiness Ukwuoma, 40  and Sherifat Ipeya  54. Preliminary investigation revealed that the pregnant ladies were lured with promises of employment from their respective states to Lagos, only to be forced into prostitution. Vanguard also stated that the ladies movements were restricted and that whenever any of them got pregnant, the suspects who posed as nurses,  would monitor them until delivery. Upon delivery, the babies would be taken to three different homes, from where they would be sold to ready buyers, especially women who are in desperate need of children, between N300,000 and N500,000. A girl child is said to be sold for N300,000 while the boy is sold for N500,000. As at yesterday, the Police were able to trace four babies to  32 Owosho Street, Governor Road, Ikotun; 29 Olugbeyohun Street,  Olakunle Bus Stop Abaranja;   4/6 Anomo Street,  Abaranja and 14 Adisa street Ayanwale area of Ikotun, all in Lagos State. Vanguard One major expectation of most newly weds is to welcome their bundle of joy at least, one year after wedding, as anxiety usually sets in when there is no sign of pregnancy after a year or two of unprotected sex . At this point, parents from both sides start prying… January 20, 2018 In "Just Human" WITH an estimated population of 23 million people, Lagos has been in slumber in recent times considering the decaying infrastructure and slow pace of developments. August 30, 2019 In "News" The Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu has said that new policies that will regulate the operations of Okada in the state are underway. September 7, 2019 In "News"