The Nigerian Union South Africa (NUSA) has lauded the Chairman of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, for his benevolence towards the evacuation of Nigerians from South Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the management of Air Peace, in collaboration with the Federal Government, evacuated 187 Nigerians from South Africa on Sept. 11. They also evacuated another set of 320 that arrived in Nigeria on Wednesday. NUSA President, Adetola Olubajo, said in a statement that the gesture was an act of absolute humanity to nationhood displayed by Air Peace. According to NUSA, the umbrella organisation of Nigerians in South Africa,  the gesture came at a point when all hope seemed to have been lost in a far-away nation. “It was great and humbling to hear Allen Onyema say he would do whatever it took to rescue the situation. “He emphasized his disposition to make a difference in the society for national interest and for this, we say he is a rare breed in our generation,” N said Olubajo also added that Onyema had constantly been a source of inspiration to people who appreciate philanthropic gestures. Vanguard The Nigerian Union in South Africa (NUSA) has commended the proprietor of Air Peace Airline, Chief Allen Onyema, for donating an aircraft to evacuate Nigerians with intention of returning home from South Africa. September 7, 2019 In "News" A group of eminent Nigerians who are dedicated to peacebuilding and national development under the umbrellas of Center for Peace Reorientation and Human Development (CPRHD) otherwise known as Nigeria Peace Group, NPG, has called for renewed sense of patriotism among Nigerians in the wake of recent Xenophobia attacks, while commending… September 15, 2019 In "News" A member of the House of Representatives, Dr Ajibola Muraina (PDP-Oyo), has urged his colleagues to donate at least N100,000 each for the cabin crew of Air Peace Airline involved in the rescuing stranded Nigerians suffering xenophobic attacks in South Africa. Muraina made the call while addressing newsmen on Thursday… September 20, 2019 In "News"