Prof. Peter Okebukola, a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Comission (NUC), says greater attention to teacher’s preparation, happiness and welfare, will ultimately translate to good quality education in the  country. Okebukola said this in an interview with Newsmen on the sidelines of the Lagos State University (LASU) Faculty of Education 2019 Distinguished Lecture series. The lecture, which had as its theme: “Teachers Preparation For Nigerian Schools : Adequacy, Effectiveness And Impact,’’ was delivered by Prof. Ruqayyatu Rufa’i, a former Minister of Education. Okebukola said that the government needed to improve on teachers’ conditions of service, so that those with the passion and willingness to apply for teaching jobs would have fulfilled chosen careers. The former NUC boss said once government fulfilled the standards raised above, it could then also raise the standards and requirements for the recruitment of teachers. “When you provide incentives for teaching professionals and improve the preparation of teachers, then we are assured that the glorious days would be restored,’’ he said. According to him, data has indicated that teachers in Nigeria are not as effective and impactful in delivering the curriculum as expected. Okebukola revealed that due to a host of reasons such as the preparation of teachers, incentives for them to be happy to deliver the curriculum and the quality of people recruited to teach have been compromised. “Unfortunately, we have a preponderance of teachers who are ill- prepared but unhappy to be there and do feel somehow compelled to do the job,’’ he said. The Don explained that research had shown that a third of the variables behind the good performance of students was the quality of teachers. Okebukola, however, noted that “even if you have the best equipment and laboratories in the world, if the teachers’ factor is not good, then a third of the performance will not be good.’’ Vanguard A former Minister of Education, Prof. Ruqayyatu Rufa’i says over 30 per cent of teachers at the nation’s primary, junior and senior secondary school levels are unqualified. September 11, 2019 In "Education" The Lagos State University, LASU has stated that Prof. Peter Okebukola followed due process in submission of his age. April 9, 2019 In "News" Baroness Lynda Chalker, former Foreign Minister, United Kingdom Foreign Officer , guest speaker at a lecture organised by Lagos State University, LASU Ojo said that Africa and indeed Nigeria would continue to grope in state of underdevelopment if the issue of bad leadership, corruption were not urgently addressed. August 22, 2018 In "News"