TOYOTA is leaving no stone unturned in its efforts to keep the Toyota Corolla as the world’s best selling car ever. From Japan to America and the rest of the world, the Corolla is getting improvement all round. Toyota Motor Corporation announces the launch of its completely redesigned Corolla (Sedan) and Corolla Touring (Wagon) in Japan (previously “Corolla Axio” and “Corolla Fielder” respectively, in Japan), and the improved Corolla Sport (Hatchback), and the start of sales at Toyota Mobility Tokyo Inc., Netz Toyota Toto Co., Ltd, Netz Toyota Tama Co., Ltd., and Toyota dealers across Japan. Since its debut in 1966, Corolla has become a car loved by customers all over the world, and has been cultivated as a long-term strong seller, with a track record of over 47.5 million vehicle sales *2 in more than 150 countries and regions. The introduction of the Corolla Sport as a new model in the Corolla series in June last year, and the adoption of the TNGA platform, has greatly revitalized the design and driving. The Corolla Sedan version and Corolla Touring Wagon version are new introductions to the Corolla series, allowing a varied choice of vehicles to suit customers’ lifestyles. Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross rules with strings of awards(Opens in a new browser tab) Utilizing the TNGA platform and design with Japan roads in mind results in sporty styling with a low center of gravity, enjoyable driving, and responsive handling. The new models are equipped with the latest Toyota Safety Sense, delivering enhanced safety performance. On-board connected services have also been upgraded to include Toyota’s first Display Audio as standard, installed in conjunction with smartphones. “The Corolla is a car that is always ready to evolve to meet customers’ current needs,” says Yasushi Ueda, chief engineer in charge of development. “For this reason, it has been a long-term favourite of customers in Japan and all over the world. The new Corolla exceeds customer expectations by ‘adopting the TNGA platform, sporty design, and pleasurable driving.’ With the advanced safety equipment and connected functions, the safe and secure everyday driving of our customers is supported. I would like you to experience riding in or driving the Corolla series just to understand the sheer fun of driving this car.” In reassessing the grades and some equipment of the conventional Corolla Axio and Corolla Fielder,*3 while continuing to sell them, has meant a wide range of customer needs, including those of corporate customers, can be met. TOYOTA is not leaving anything to chance as it continues to improve its best-selling sedan, the Corolla. At the Guangzhou International Automobile Exhibition, China, Toyota unveiled new models of Corolla which it said would deliver enhanced basic performance achieved by the GA-C platform. Toyota announced that sales in the United… November 23, 2018 In "Motoring" FOR half a century,  Toyota Corolla has ruled its segment without looking back. From a small compact car fifty one years ago the Toyota Corolla has grown to become a class benchmark in every ramification, setting the pace in its segment in terms of quality, safety, comfort and drivebility. The… September 15, 2017 In "Motoring" TOYOTA Motor Corp. reported a 28 percent surge in its net profit in the last quarter, helped by growing sales in Europe, Asia and the Americas, and raised its earnings forecast for the full year. November 16, 2018 In "Motoring"