A 32-year-old businessman, Chinedu Okoye, who allegedly obtained N14 million from a man to solve his ”spiritual problems”, on Monday appeared in an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court, Lagos. Okoye is charged with conspiracy, obtaining under false pretences and perverting the cause of justice, to which he pleaded not guilty. The Prosecution Counsel, Insp. Ingobo Emby told the court that the defendant committed the offence between March 1 and April 24, at Plot 3508, Dominic Obiajiku St., Devine Estate, Amuwo-Odofin, Lagos. Emby said that the defendant fraudulently obtained N14 million from Mr Obiora Elefobiri, that he would provide spiritual solutions for him, a representation he knew was false. Also read: Buhari, APC, out to cover corruption, incompetence- PDP “Businessman did not provide the spiritual solutions, but converted the money to his personal use,” the prosecutor said. Emby said the defendant also conducted himself in a manner likely to pervert the cause of justice by aiding the escape of his elder brother, Arinze Okoye, a suspect under investigation in a case of conspiracy and fraud. According to the prosecutor, the offence contravened the provisions of sections 97(1), 287, 314(2) and 411of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Magistrate M.O. Ope-Agbe admitted the defendant (Businessman) to bail in the sum of N17 million with two sureties in like sum. Ope-Agbe adjourned the case until Oct. 16 for mention. Vanguard For allegedly defrauding a businesswoman of N66 million in a bid to solve her spiritual problems, two people — Innocent Chukwu and Obiageli Anachebe — were on Wednesday brought before an Ikeja High Court. September 21, 2016 In "News" A businessman, Raheed Ademola, who allegedly obtained N10.5 million under false pretence, on Friday appeared before an Igbosere Magistrates’ Court in Lagos State. July 13, 2018 In "Crime Alert" A 42-year-old man, Taiwo Idowu, who allegedly aided the escape of two men he stood surety for, was on Friday in Lagos granted a N1 million bail. March 31, 2017 In "News"