The feud between Nollywood actresses Toyin Abraham and Liz Anjorin might not be ending soon as the latter has responded to Toyin Abraham’s lawsuit against her. Liz Anjorin in a statement revealed that she has written a petition to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, to investigate the both of them, as she has been accused by Toyin of dealing in drugs. Meanwhile, Lizzy is of the opinion that Toyin has always being a cocaine user from the post she made on Instagram. Cuba: When people shed their blood for you https://t.co/reRuwERBMx @vanguardngr.com #vanguardnews — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) September 20, 2019  “You accused me of peddling drugs and left me with no option now than write a petition to NDLEA to investigate both of us for drug-related offences. They must, as a matter of fact, test both of us for drugs and publish their outcome. You and I know you desperately need a high powered rehab before you can stop taking cocaine. And only God knows how many of your followers and fans you have initiated into these substance intake…Until I get justice I will never back down…” Also following Lizzy Anjorin’s claims that Toyin Abraham had her son, Ire in a trado house, the former has now released a full video showing how she actually delivered her son in Vedic lifecare hospital in Lekki. ” Toyin, it took you 10 days after you gave birth before announcing to the world. Why? You gave birth at a traditional birth attendant facility in Lagos but sold a lie that you gave birth abroad. You now hired a costumier to take photos for Instagram sake. VANGUARD Two Yoruba actresses of Edo blood, Mercy Aigbe and Toyin Abraham are very close friends in every ramification, or so it seemed, until questions begging answers cropped up last week concerning their relationship. June 9, 2018 In "Entertainment" The divorce saga between actors, Toyin Abraham and Adeniyi Johnson took centre stage again last week when the latter cried out in an Instagram post that his former wife, Alakada actress, Toyin Abraham, should let him go and stop delaying the divorce process that would set him free to marry… December 8, 2018 In "Entertainment" Cossy vs Iyabo Ojo vs Daniella Okeke Busty actress, Cossy Ojiakor revealed her disdain for fellow actresses, Iyabo Ojo,  Daniella Okeke and Apostle Suleman of Omega Fire Ministries via her Instagram page on Easter day. Iyabo Ojo and Daniella Okeke had earlier been accused of warming the beds of popular… December 28, 2018 In "News"