Edwin Osuhor, Tournament Director of the African Tour, on Saturday revealed that golfers from at least seven countries were expected to feature in the 1st October Golf Championship in Port Harcourt. The championship which is the fourth edition of the African Tour’s annual event is usually staged to mark the Nigerian Independence. The Nigeria@59 championship is expected to tee off on Saturday and end on Oct. 1 at the Port Harcourt Golf Club. Osuhor in Abuja said that players from seven African countries Ghana, Cameroon, Senegal, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Equatorial Guinea and hosts Nigeria would battle for honours in this year’s tournament. He noted that the annual independence tournament had become the best-attended event on the Tour. “Last year, a record number of spectators enjoyed the fun at the Port Harcourt Club’s Golf Section when Ghana’s Vincent Torgah claimed the title. “This golf tournament which features some of the game’s top players in the region has gained a reputation over the years as the most raucous event on the African Tour, and for good reason. “The 18th and 9th holes of the host course of this event are home to one of the most enthusiastic crowds on the African Tour,” Osuhor said. The tournament director explained that there would also be some smaller events organised as part of activities to mark the Independence tournament. “This year’s tournament is nearly a week-long, spanning over two weeks. “On Thursday and Friday, the pros will play practice rounds to get ready for when each stroke counts. “There will also be a ‘Beat The Pro Contest’ amongst young players whose ages range from 6 to 18, where any player who beats pro by having his or her ball closer to the pin than the pros will win a gift voucher worth 100 U. S. dollars. “The fun really begins on Friday with the qualifying event for new pros seeking a spot in this year’s event. It is a one-day contest featuring pro golfers paired with scratch amateurs. “The actual tournament officially begins on Sept. 28 where a lot of notable golfers around Africa will be out to make the cut,” he said. NAN also reports that some of the notable players expected to feature in the tourney include defending champion Vincent Torgah from Ghana. There will also as well be 2016 and 2017 champions, Nigeria’s Andrew Odoh and Kingsley Oparaku, respectively. Others are Cameroon’s Priestly Nji; the winner of the 2019 Shagamu Cup, Francis Epe; winner of the 2019 South-East Shoot-out, and Emos Koblarh; the number two player in the Order of Merit (O. D. M.). The rest are Olapade Sunday; number three (O.D.M), Gift Willy; number five (O.D.M) and Mike Ubi; number six (O.D.M). With just four events left before curtains fall on the 2019 Tour season, players will be looking to win. Winning will help them improve their positions on the Order of Merit as this tournament offers 4,000 merit points. Vanguard Nigerian News. Nine tournaments have been lined up for the 2018 West Africa Golf Tour (WAGT), with the opening event being the FCT Classic which gets underway in Abuja on Thursday. February 28, 2018 In "News" Emeka Okatta, President of the West Africa Golf Tour (WAGT), on Friday in Abuja said WAGT was set to stage one of its tournaments for the 2018 season in Lagos. December 29, 2017 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, has called for more private sector support for the West Africa Golf Tour (WAGT) events in order to attract more international golfers. March 1, 2018 In "News"