ASABA – PAN -Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, the mouthpiece of traditional rulers, leaders, and stakeholders of the coastal states of Niger Delta, yesterday, asked South-South Governors to stop the movement of armed herdsmen in the region like their southeast counterparts did, a few days ago. Amidst the claim by some Northern leaders that southeast governors had no powers to ban interstate movement of herders, the regional group, in a statement, by the National Secretary, Dr. Alfred Mulade, said the decision was in order. “The South-South governors should take a cue from the southeast governors and tow the same path”, it said, saluting the governors for their good intention and courage. Herdsmen: CAN warns against anarchy in Nigeria According to the group, “It is a decision well taken to safeguard loss of lives and property by herdsmen, who bear dangerous weapons.” “Open grazing and an unhindered movement of herdsmen constitute a security risk, especially when the federal government is unable to arrest any of these AK 47- bearing herdsmen who kill and destroy innocent and defenseless Nigerians. “You do not expect a state governor to keep quiet and condone killings of his people by herdsmen whom the federal government cannot deal with,” it added. THE Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, the umbrella group of traditional rulers, leaders and stakeholders of the coastal states of Niger Delta, yesterday, warned that the plan by the Federal Government to establish settlements for herdsmen in states across the country was an invitation to anarchy and a preface to… June 29, 2019 In "News" THE Niger Delta Security Watch Organization of Nigerian, NDSWON, Ijaw Peoples Development Initiative, IPDI, and Foundation for Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Crusade, FHRACC, yesterday, said the claim by the Presidency that the Pan Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, an umbrella group of traditional rulers, leaders and stakeholders of the coastal states… December 30, 2016 In "News" PAN Niger Delta Forum, PANDEF, yesterday, declared that the entire South and Middle Belt would continue to oppose the sneaky implementation of the proposed Ruga settlement programme for Fulani herdsmen by the Federal Government no matter the intimidation. July 14, 2019 In "News"