The Nigerian social media space was set alight when the news of a protest led by the National Youths Council of Nigeria against popular transvestite, Idris Okuneye a.k.a Bobrisky hit the internet. The National Youths Council of Nigeria had led a protest against Bobrisky on Wednesday in Abuja against what it called the moral decadence of Bobrisky. The Vice President of NYCN (North Central Zone), Mukhtar Jebba, described the activities of Bobrisky as “ungodly, unhealthy and disgusting.” Bobrisky blasts DG Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe(Opens in a new browser tab) “Consequently, the NYCN today, September 18 2019 declares Bobrisky as persona non grata, as he is a man (not a woman). For national interest, we call on the ever-conscious, ever-ready, combatant Nigerian youths and comrades of like minds to, without fear or favour, kick out Bobrisky and his likes wherever they come across them. Nigeria is not a place for LGBT and we shall fight this to the end,” he stated. Many youths took to twitter to condemn the protest, stating that there are lots of issues facing the country and affecting the youths which should be protested against and not Bobrisky. Vanguard Following the recent threat by the Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe to deal with Nigerian male barbie, Okuneye Idris Olarenwaju popularly known as Bobrisky, the later has taken a swipe at the DG, saying he is too small for him to worry… August 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" No, what I said is, if they don’t change the content of Big Brother Naija, I will make a formal report to NBC. I have respect for constituted authority August 24, 2019 In "Entertainment" When he catwalked into the reception hall of a wedding held in Lagos recently, all eyes were fixed on him. Immediately he stepped in, a crowd of curious onlookers milled around him for photo shots and autograph. It actually felt as if a superstar was at the event but the… September 7, 2019 In "Entertainment"