Barely 24 hours he was moved from the ministry of Niger-Delta Affairs to Labour and Employment ministry, Festus Keyamo (SAN), has on Wednesday reacted, thanking President Muhammadu Buhari for his faultless decision. “Thank you, Mr. President for finding me versatile enough to move around”, part of his statement read. The vibrant SAN has quickly added “Former Min. of State, Niger-Delta Affairs, now Hon. Min. of State, Labour & Employment, Senior Advocate of Nig & Fellow, Chartered Inst. of Arb. (UK)” to his profile and displayed it on his twitter handle. Keyamo’s picture with suspected fraudster: Focus on Atiku, Onoh replies Paul Ibe(Opens in a new browser tab) His tweet has generated about 7.2 million likes, 2.4 thousand re-tweets and 914 replies as at the time of filling this report. Reason for his redeployment After the announcement of Keyamo’s redeployment, no official press release has been issued to know the rationale behind his sudden change from the ministry of Niger Delta to Labour under two months. Recall that the Director of Information at the Office of Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Willie Bassey, yesterday issued a statement that Keyamo would replace Tayo Alasoadura as the Minister of State at the labour ministry, while Alasoadura replaced him at the Niger Delta Affairs ministry. How Keyamo feels From his reaction, one can deduce the fact that Keyamo is happy to have served as a state minister of Niger-Delta Affairs and now serving as a state minister of Labour and Employment. Festus Keyamo calls for arrest of Senator Elisha Abbo(Opens in a new browser tab) “On the move again, tow portfolios in two months. Just been redeployed to the Ministry of Labour and Employment to work with my long-time big brother, H.E, Chris Ngige. Thank you, Mr. President for finding me versatile enough to move around. Always ready to serve in any capacity”, he said via his twitter handle. Vanguard
See his tweet below: ON THE MOVE AGAIN: TWO PORTFOLIOS IN TWO MONTHS! Just been redeployed to the Ministry of Labour and Employment to work with my long-time big brother, H.E, Chris Ngige. Thank you, Mr. President for finding me versatile enough to move around. Always ready to serve in any capacity pic.twitter.com/pEQ6lcpXSO — Festus Keyamo, SAN (@fkeyamo) September 24, 2019  President Muhammadu Buhari, has on Tuesday redeployed the Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Festus Keyamo, to the ministry of  labour. September 24, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the immediate redeployment of two Ministers of State Mr Willie Bassey, Director, Information Office of Secretary to the Government of the Federation, made this known in a statement issued on Tuesday in Abuja. Osinbajo’s ordeal with the Presidency, not our Concern – Senate According to… September 24, 2019 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi  President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday (Tuesday) reshuffled his cabinet, redeploying two Ministers of State. A statement issued by the Director, Press, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation OSGF, Mr Willie Bassey stated that "Mr Festus Keyamo, Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs is… September 25, 2019 In "News"