China on Friday donated security equipment worth 4.2 million dollars to the Sri Lankan government on their request, following the Easter Sunday terror attacks, which killed more than 250 people on April 21. In a statement, China’s Ambassador to Sri Lanka Cheng Xueyuan said the equipment were handed over to the Sri Lankan government at a ceremony held at the Presidential Secretariat in capital Colombo.
The statement said the equipment worth an estimated 4.2 million dollars were donated after a request from the Sri Lankan government.  The emergency equipment includes 500 handheld metal detectors, 25 walkthrough safety inspection gates, 50 x-ray security inspection systems, 25 hand-held vehicle scanners, three explosive detectors, and three explosives and narcotics trace detectors.
Besides the equipment, China will also send a technical team to Sri Lanka for installation and training, the statement said.  Sri Lanka’s Defence Secretary Shantha Kottegoda said at the handover ceremony that following the April bombings, the government had requested China and other friendly nations to help strengthen the country’s security capacity. China had immediately responded positively and donated security equipment.  Friday’s donation is part of a series of donations made to the Sri Lankan government and Sri Lanka is thankful to China for this, Kottegoda said. The Chinese ambassador said that China will continue to strengthen its co-operation with Sri Lanka in several sectors and it is determined to promote all-round cooperation which will benefit the two countries and the peoples. Source: NAN  Vanguard News Islamic State says its members were behind the Easter Sunday suicide bombings in Sri Lanka, in a statement carried by the extremist group’s mouthpiece Amaq. April 23, 2019 In "General" Sri Lankan authorities have ordered a state of emergency to be introduced from midnight Monday following the deadly Easter attacks, the president's office said. April 22, 2019 In "Foreign" Before being named prime suspects in Sri Lanka's Easter bomb suicide attacks, National Thowheeth Jama'ath's main claim to fame was being linked to vandalising of Buddhist statues. April 22, 2019 In "News"