House of Representatives member for Udi/Ezeagu federal constituency, Rep Dennis Amadi has commended the Enugu State Governor, Rt. Hon Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for acquiring security equipment for the state. Governor Ugwuanyi recently unveiled over 100 Nigeria made utility vehicles, assorted buses, motorcycles, and other security gadgets acquired to eradicate pockets of mischief in the state. Commending the Governor for the bold initiative, Rep Amadi said that it takes a focused Chief Executive such as Governor Ugwuanyi to prioritize the needs of his people, knowing that security of the state was of utmost priority. He urged residents of Enugu state to always report suspected moves of insecurity around their areas, noting that security is everyone’s business. Amadi said “I commend the Governor of Enugu State, Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for rising up to the situational demand of the state. His infrastructural development of the state is focus-driven and now he is matching the social needs with capital development. “I wish him God’s Providence as he tackles challenges of the state, knowing full well Enugu state is truly in the Hands of God.” vanguard   The people of Ozom in Aguobu-Owa in Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State recently presented “Ofo” to Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi “as a symbol of support and endorsement for His Excellency, Rt. Hon. Dr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and his Deputy, Her Excellency, Lolo Cecilia Ezeilo for 2019”. July 29, 2017 In "News" ENUGU- KINSMEN to former Governor Sullivan Chime of Enugu state under the aegis of Umuneke Udi leaders of Thought and Stakeholders have‎ alleged that rather than benefiting from Chime's government, the clan experienced retrogression. April 15, 2017 In "News" Says Gov Is An Apostle of Peace The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Public Accounts, Rt. Hon. Wole Oke, has extolled the leadership qualities of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State, as a peaceful, humble, focused, hard working and grassroots politician who has concentrated massive development more in the… September 3, 2019 In "News"