Almost all flights by British Airways, totalling hundreds of departures, were cancelled on Monday as pilots launched a 48-hour strike in a dispute over pay. The airline estimated that the two-day strike will affect 195,000 customers. Most of British Airway’s 850 scheduled flights per day would be cancelled, with passengers being offered a refund or a later flight. The strike has been labeled one of the biggest in the airline’s history, and the first by its pilots. The airline said that without information about which pilots would strike, “we had no way of predicting how many would come to work or which aircraft they are qualified to fly. Arik Air resumes flights to Warri(Opens in a new browser tab) “So, we had no option but to cancel nearly 100 per cent our flights.” According to the British Airline Pilots’ Association (Balpa), one strike day costs the airline about 40 million pounds (49 million dollars). In July, the pilots declined an offer by British Airways of an 11.5 per cent pay rise over three years. Unions that organise cabin crew staff and ground crew have accepted pay rises. British Airways Chief Executive Alex Cruz urged Balpa to continue talks to end the strike. “The discussions must continue, they must be unconditional,” he said. The airline said on its website Monday: “We understand the frustration and disruption Balpa’s strike action has caused our customers. “After many months of trying to resolve the pay dispute, we are extremely sorry that it has come to this.” London’s Heathrow airport will be worst affected as it is British Airway’s busiest hub. Terminal 5, the one mainly used by the airline, was compared to a ghost town. British Airways said it flies to over 70 countries and transports more than 40 million customers a year. British Airways partners on Youth Development in Nigeria(Opens in a new browser tab) There were also fears of a knock-on effect and delays on Wednesday since planes and pilots could be at other locations. “British Airways has to wake up,” Balpa’s general secretary Brian Strutton said. Pilots had to accept significant pay cuts during difficult times. Now that the airline was making money, it should give something back to its pilots. “It is time to get back to the negotiating table and put together a serious offer that will end this dispute,” he said.
A second strike is planned for Sept. 27. (NAN) Vanguard Pilots of British carrier British Airways are planning their first-ever strike Monday and Tuesday, walking out for 48 hours in a pay dispute. According to the British Airline Pilots' Association (Balpa), a further strike day in the long-running dispute is planned for September 27. Starting at midnight on Sunday, the… September 9, 2019 In "News" "Discussions will be opened and they could end in cancellations, that's our approach." October 6, 2015 In "News" The ongoing volcanic ash disruption has cost aviation service providers in the country and airlines revenue estimated at billions of naira. May 3, 2010 In "Business"