WARRI- A Niger Delta group, Meinbutus Federated Communities, Warri Kingdom, Delta State, has called on the newly appointed Chairman and Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Dr. Pius Odubu and Mr. Bernard Okumagba respectively, to work towards the development of Niger Delta, particularly completion of the East-West Road. The Amanana-owei of Meinbutus, Warri, King-jerry Prebor (snr,) in a statement, said; “All sub-communities and elders of Meinbutus, Warri Kingdom congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari for the appointment of Dr. Pius Odubu and Mr. Bernard Okumagba into NDDC board as chairman and managing director.” Onuesoke cautions against distracting Okowa over 2023 guber agitation(Opens in a new browser tab) “It is a welcome development, no administration in the history of this country has so carried the people of the Niger Delta this far and we appreciate Mr. President for the kind gesture. He has proven his commitment to the development of the Niger Delta region. “We, therefore, urge the beneficiaries of the President’s gesture to work towards the development of the region, particularly, the east west road, which is a death trap,” he stated. Vanguard WARRI—A Niger Delta Group, Meinbutus Federated Communities, Warri Kingdom, Delta State, has called on Minister of Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva, and Minister of State for Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Festus Keyamo, to  facilitate, as a matter of urgency, the completion of the Koko-Lagos Road and revival of Warri and Burutu… August 23, 2019 In "News" The people of the Niger-Delta under the aegis of Niger Delta People Confederation, NDPC, have expressed total support of the appointment of Dr. Pius Odubu and Bernard Okumagba as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission respectively. August 31, 2019 In "News" A pressure group, Meinbutus, has called on Deltans to support the new board of the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission, DESOPADEC, to succeed in its mandate of developing the oil bearing communities in the state. August 12, 2019 In "News"