A blaze broke out on a scuba diving vessel near the southern coast of California early on Monday, leaving 25 people dead; nine are still missing. The 75-foot (20-meter) commercial scuba diving vessel was on a three-day excursion when the fire broke out. It was anchored roughly 20 yards (18 meters) off the northern coast of Santa Cruz Island, some 140 kilometers (90 miles) west of Los Angeles. Santa Cruz Island, part of California’s Channel Islands National Park, is a popular destination for divers due its underwater attractions, including colorful corals and large marine mammals. Gov Makinde appoints press crew member, Dare Aleshinloye as media assistant on photography(Opens in a new browser tab) The fire broke out in the lower portion of the boat at around 3 a.m. (1030 UTC), while most of the people on board were asleep. How the fire began still remains unclear, authorities said. The US Coast Guard (USCG) deployed helicopters, small boats and a patrol cutter ship to the scene. ‘It was horrendous’ Five crew members who were sleeping on the top deck managed to escape the blaze. “The crew was actually already awake and on the bridge and they jumped off,” said US Coast Guard Captain Monica Rochester. The crew members swam to the pleasure boat Grape Escape, which was anchored nearby, and were rescued. Bob and Shirley Hansen, owners of the Grape Escape, told US daily The New York Times that the frightened crew members came on board as the dive boat was already in flames. “I could see the fire coming through holes on the side of the boat. There were these explosions every few beats. You can’t prepare yourself for that. It was horrendous,” said Bob Hansen. Boat mishap claims 3 lives in Niger(Opens in a new browser tab) “The fire was too big, there was absolutely nothing we could do,” he added. Boat unstable Rochester said as a result of the fire, the vessel sank in 64 feet (19.5 meters) of water, with its bow still visible above the waterline. Initially, the coast guard recovered four bodies from the water, leaving 29 people still missing. But later in the day, divers found four more bodies on the ocean floor.(NAN) Vanguard Firefighters in California on Saturday battled raging blazes at both ends of the state that have left at least nine people dead and thousands of homes destroyed -- but there was little hope of containing the flames anytime soon. November 10, 2018 In "Just Human" Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte vowed Tuesday to get to the truth about a blaze in his home city that killed 37 call centre workers. December 26, 2017 In "News" It was a gust of chilly wind that said Akwaaba (welcome, in Ghanaian language) to me in the Jordanian city of Aqaba, that night of December 1, 2017. We had flown for about five hours from Abuja, as President Muhammadu Buhari was to attend a summit on combating terrorism in… December 8, 2017 In "Viewpoint"