UN Secretary-General António Guterres has called for inclusion in the democratic process of all member states. In a message to mark the 2019 International Day of Democracy, Guterres noted that democracy was about the people. He urged every government to respect their citizens’ right to “meaningful participation” in the political process. The International Day of Democracy is observed on Sept. 15 to promote and uphold the tenets of democracy. It is the product of a UN General Assembly’s resolution in 2019, which urged member states and organisations to commemorate the day in a manner that contributes to raising public awareness. “Democracy is built on inclusion, equal treatment and participation. “It is a fundamental building block for peace, sustainable development and human rights,’’ the UN Chief said. While lauding those who “strive tirelessly to make this happen’’, Guterres affirmed that these values and aspirations “cannot be seen as tokens or lip service’’ but must instead be “real in people’s lives’’. “Yet the International Day of Democracy takes place at a time when trust is low and anxiety is high. “People are frustrated by growing inequalities and unsettled by sweeping changes from globalisation and technology.’’ He blamed the situation on “conflicts going unresolved, climate emergency going unanswered, injustice going unaddressed and civic space shrinking’’. “As we mark Democracy Day, I urge all Governments to respect the right to active, substantive and meaningful participation,’’ Guterres said. Vanguard The UN has stressed the need for peace education at childhood to promote ideals of non-violence, equality and mutual respect. September 8, 2017 In "News" On his first day in office, UN Secretary-General António Guterres, has called for teamwork. Guterres urged staff at the world body’s New York Headquarters that it was not enough to do the “do the right thing; we need to earn the right to do the right thing”. “It is very… January 4, 2017 In "News" As the world marked  the International Day for Elimination of Violence against Women yesterday,  United Nations Secretary General, Mr António Guterres, has called for collective global action on the issue of violence against women, saying achieving gender equality and  full empowerment of women is the answer to ending violence against… November 26, 2017 In "News"