PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, Tuesday dissolved the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public PROPERTY, SPIP The dissolved panel was chaired by the embattled Okoi Obono-Obla who was recently suspended by the President. A statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina stated that the Attorney-General of the Federation, AGF and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami had been directed to “immediately take over all outstanding investigations and other activities of the SPIP.” The panel was established in August 2017 by the then Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to investigate specifically mandated cases of corruption, abuse of office and similar offences by public officers. Court dissolves 13-year-old marriage after wife calls husband impotent(Opens in a new browser tab) President Buhari, the statement noted thanked all members of the dissolved panel for their services. “The President looks forward to receiving the final Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) report on the ongoing investigations of the dissolved panel’s Chairman,” it stated. Vanguard Ever since Chief Obono-Obla became the chairman of the panel, his private life has been in the beam light by the alleged corrupt ones who has done much to either paint his image black or indict him in any unforeseen circumstance. One of it been the prying to know the… September 3, 2018 In "News" Special Presidential Investigation Panel, SPIP, for Recovery of Public Property has informed that the Federal Government is working with the United Kingdom to ensure that identified treasury looters are no longer issued visa. June 14, 2018 In "News" The House of Representatives has written to the Federal Government, demanding it to act on the House resolution calling for the sack and investigation of the Chairman, Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SIP) and Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Prosecution, Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla. March 30, 2019 In "News"