The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Taraba Command, has arrested 21 suspected drug dealers with a total seizure of 299.6 kg of assorted illicit drugs. The NDLEA Commander in the state, Alhaji Suleiman Jadi, disclosed on Friday in JAlingo while parading the suspects and the items seized from them. Breaking: Buhari jets out to Burkina Faso on Saturday(Opens in a new browser tab) He said that the suspects were arrested in some flashpoints across the state that include: Gidin-Doruwa in Wukari Local Council and Forest. Others include: Kogin-Sarki, Kogin-Malam-Garba, Maijidda Plaza, Mayodasa, Sabongari, Road Block and Mile Six, all in Jalingo. Jadi said the items seized from them are: 239.9 kg of Cannabis Sativa, popularly known as Indian hemp, and 59.7kg of psychotropic substances, which had 274 bottles of codeine syrups. He said that nine of the suspects had been charged to court while investigation was ongoing on the remaining suspects. The commander lauded the state government for its support in the area of logistics to the command. He, however, appealed to Gov. Darius Ishaku to provide accommodation for the staff, a rehabilitation centre and a bigger store for the command. Customs at Ogun rakes in over N3.2bn(Opens in a new browser tab) He said, “Currently, we take those being rehabilitated to Bauchi State while some of our seized drugs are stored in Yola because our store in Jalingo is too small to accommodate seized drugs.” He also appealed to the residents of the state to provide the command with useful information that would lead to the arrest of illicit drug dealers. (NAN) Vanguard The Edo State Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested 86 people, suspected to be trafficking illicit drugs. The Commander of the agency in Edo, Mr Buba Wakawa, told the Newsmen in Benin on Monday that the suspects were arrested between July and September this year. October 23, 2017 In "News" LOKOJA—The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, in Kogi State has arrested six suspected drug dealers and seized 300.7kg of Cannabis Sativa and some psycotropic substances. February 12, 2015 In "News" Badagry—The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, Seme Command in Lagos State said yesterday, that it seized 907.4 kg of hemp in 2015. January 5, 2016 In "News"