President Muhammadu Buhari has formally dissolved the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP) as currently constituted with Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla as Chairman. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice has been directed to immediately take over all outstanding investigations and other activities of the SPIP. The President also said he is awaiting the final Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) report on Obono-Obla. The panel was established in August 2017 by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, while acting as president, to investigate specifically mandated cases of corruption, abuse of office and similar offences by public officers. PHOTOS: President Buhari receives Annual Report of Police Service Commission in State House(Opens in a new browser tab) President Buhari thanked all members of the dissolved panel for their services, said the President’s media adviser, Femi Adesina. Buhari in August suspended Okoi Obono-Obla, from office. The suspension letter, signed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, who also directed him to answer questions from the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission. According to Mustapha, Obono-Obla was to hand over to Dayo Apata, the Solicitor-General of the Federation, who was holding forte in the Justice Ministry at the time. Among other things, he is being investigated over allegations of certificate forgery and other corruption-related charges. He was also accused of acting outside the mandate setting up the panel  PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, Tuesday dissolved the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public PROPERTY, SPIP. September 17, 2019 In "News" Special Presidential Investigation Panel, SPIP, for Recovery of Public Property has informed that the Federal Government is working with the United Kingdom to ensure that identified treasury looters are no longer issued visa. June 14, 2018 In "News" The House of Representatives has written to the Federal Government, demanding it to act on the House resolution calling for the sack and investigation of the Chairman, Special Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property (SIP) and Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Prosecution, Mr. Okoi Obono-Obla. March 30, 2019 In "News"