Escalating trade tensions between China and the U.S. have dampened prospects for developing Asia, with the region’s economy expected to grow slower than predicted this year and in 2020, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) said on Wednesday. The Manila-based ADB scaled down its forecast for economic growth in developing Asia, which includes 45 countries in Asia and the Pacific, to 5.4 percent this year and 5.5 percent in 2020, down from 5.7 percent and 5.6 percent, respectively, as predicted in July. The bank said in an update on its annual Asian Development Outlook report that the lowered forecasts “reflect gloomier prospects for international trade” due to the trade conflict between China and the U.S., as well as slowing growth in China, India, South Korea, and Thailand. “The trade conflict between the U.S. and China could escalate further or even spread beyond trade and the two economies. “The risk of a deeper malaise in the global economy, and uncertainty on how policymakers around the world will respond to weaker global growth may stoke volatility in global financial markets,” ADB chief economist Yasuyuki Sawada said. He added that weakening trade momentum and declining investments were also major risks to the outlook in developing Asia. Source: NAN  Vanguard News Global trade tensions, continued uncertainty and rising prospects for a no-deal Brexit are sapping the strength of the world economy, which faces a "precarious" 2020, the International Monetary Fund warned on Tuesday. July 23, 2019 In "Business" The International Monetary Fund, IMF, has effected an upwards review of Nigeria’s economic growth rate projection to 2.1 percent, a second review by the Bretton Woods institution on the forecast this year alone. Earlier in January it had reviewed the statistics downwards to 2.0 percent from initial figure of 2.3… April 10, 2019 In "Business" Oil prices on Monday clawed back some losses from a nearly 8 percent plunge on Black Friday, with Brent jumping back above $60 per barrel. November 26, 2018 In "Sweet Crude"