ABUJA -THE Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC, yesterday congratulated Senator Chris Ngige for his re-appointment as minister of Labour and Employment. The Congress in a congratulatory message signed by its President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba urged Ngige to use his re-appointment to foster a harmonious industrial relationship. Wabba in the message said that minister’s re-appointment speaks volume of the confidence President Buhari reposed on him to steer the affairs of the Ministry towards the upliftment of Nigerians from poverty, indignity and indecent work conditions. Presidential c’ttee recommends Nigeria should sign AfCFTA Agreement(Opens in a new browser tab) Said Wabba, “on behalf of my family and the Nigerian Labour Congress, I wish to congratulate you on your recent appointment by Mr. President as a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and your subsequent designation as the Minister of Labour and Employment. “Your appointment speaks volume of the confidence that Mr President reposes on you to steer the affairs of the Federal Ministry of Labour and  Employment towards the upliftment of the masses of our people from poverty, indignity and indecent work. “We expect that you will use the rare opportunity of your re-appointment to promote and advance tripartism, social dialogue, decent work conditions and harmonious industrial relations in Nigeria. Vanguard. THE re-nomination of Senator Chris Ngige for ministerial appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari did not come as a surprise to many especially within the All Progressives Congress, APC family and the labour circle. The former Anambra State Governor and member of the Seventh Senate rose through the ranks in the… August 9, 2019 In "News" THE renomination of Senator Chris Ngige for ministerial appointment by President Muhammadu Buhari did not come as a surprise to many especially within the All Progressives Congress, APC family and the labour circle. August 16, 2019 In "News" THE apex Igbo socio-cultural organization, Ohaneze Ndigbo has warned President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, Ayuba Wabba to stop using derogatory language on the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige. May 2, 2019 In "News"