Yet another Nigerian is at the receiving end of the excesses of SARS operatives. Rapper Ikechukwu took to Instagram Thursday morning to share his experience with some officers of the unit who didn’t bear any form of identification. Ikechukwu visibly distraught narrated how the officers made him exhaust his bank account before asking questions that showed they actually know who he was. He wrote: “was kidnapped by sars last night. Two mins away from my house, taken to Lagos island and made to exhaust my atm allowance or I would be killed and no one would know. “Not by armed robbers. But when you are robbed and they are armed fully, 5 AK-47’s. Blows to the head and bundled into a vehicle. Isn’t it the same thing. And then after you will now tell me our govt is working. Things are in place. Bla bla. Let me tell you now straight up. I don’t care who you are, if you are rolling solo in this town and sars get you, day or night. If they get your phone, it’s over for you. They don’t have names or numbers on their uniforms. They literally said to me ” na u burn this our Hilux here yesterday abii”, acting like they didn’t know who I was and were gonna rope me in anything they felt or do with me what they would. After collecting all the money in Lagos Island they start laughing telling me I’m too stubborn that when will I introduce them to Don Jazzy. Oh, so u know me. One even bragged about working a lot with Wazobia FM. Thanx for that info at least now I have a point to start my own investigation. READ ALSO: Who Will Save Our Children From Us? “I could’ve been shot and left in the dark space on that dark road. No id no phone. Who would id me? Who would be looking for me for days? Afterall my people saw me enter uber heading home. On the island. Shey, I’m safe. Good morning. It’s a good day to be alive. I don’t even know what hashtag to put sef. It’s ok. I recorded a video initially from when I got home last night but it was too long and it made me cry again. So I just said lemme just yan straight no need for in the moment. Just the facts. We are not safe. End of story. Know as you dey take move. Shout out to @@chris_yaks who was with me thru the whole ordeal. I hope say u dey alright.” Watch video below…   was kidnapped by sars lastnight. Two mins away from my house, taken to lagos island and made to exhaust my atm allowance or i would be killed and no one would know.. Not by armed robbers. But when u are robbed and they are armed fully , 5 ak-47’s . Blows to the head and bundled into a vehicle. Isnt it the same thing. And then after u will now tell me our govt is working. Things are in place. Bla bla. Let me tell u now straight up. I dont care who u are , if u are rolling solo in this town and sars get u. Day or night. If they get ur phone. Its over for u. They dont have names or numbers on their uniforms. They literally said to me ” na u burn this our hilux here yesterday abii” . Acting like they didnt know who i was and were gonna rope me in anything they felt or do with me what they would. After collecting all the money in lagos island they start laughing telling me im too stubborn that when will i introduce them to don jazzy. Oh so u know me. One even bragged about working alot with wazobiafm. Thanx for that info at least now i have a point to start my own investigation. I couldve been shot and left in the dark space on thst dark road. No id no phone . Who would id me. Who would be looking for me for days? Afterall my people saw me enter uber heading home. On the island. Shey im safe . Good morning. Its a good day to be alive. I dont even know what hashtag to put sef. Its ok. I recorded a video initially from when I got home last night but it was too long and it made me cry again. So i just said lemme just yan straight no need for in the moment . Just the facts. We are not safe. End of story. Know as u dey take move. Shout out to @@chris_yaks who was with me thru the whole ordeal. I hope say u dey alright. A post shared by  Ikechukwu Onunaku (@official_ikechukwu) on Sep 4, 2019 at 11:51pm PDT  VANGUARD R ecently, there were public demonstrations for and against the continued existence of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad, SARS, a dreaded anti crime unit of the Nigeria Police Force. The vexatious issue which took the front burner in national discourse resulted in the big question about how SARS came to be. There have been… December 23, 2017 In "Crime Guard" That law enforcement agents occasionally abuse their status as uniformed men to oppress unsuspecting citizens is not news. Little wonder Nigerian musicians have passionately condemned the unethical practice, calling on the government to scrap the Special Anti Robbery Squad arm of the Nigeria Police Force. December 4, 2017 In "Music" The Vice  President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, yesterday directed the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to commence investigations into allegations of abuses by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Nigeria police, otherwise known as SARS. August 15, 2018 In "Headlines"