The  All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has described the decision of the election petitions tribunal to nullify the election of the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial district, Prince Dayo Adeyeye,  as a travesty of justice. The party said Adeyeye won the February 23 senatorial election in  Ekiti South.. In a unanimous verdict ,  the three-man panel led by Justice Danladi Adeck, cancelled  votes in some units across the six local councils in the district, and declared Adeyeye’s opponent, Biodun Olujimi,  as winner. of the election. Speaking at a meeting held in Omuo Ekiti, headquarters of Ekiti East local government area on Wednesday, the APC stakeholders in the district ,  described the judgement as strange and clear negation  of wishes of the people in the senatorial district. The APC Senatorial  Chairman in the  district,  Akin Akinbobola,,, said the judgement  truncated the desire of the people as demonstrated during the general election . He said: “We are surprised by the outcome of the tribunal.  We reject it and it will not stand the test of time because the people voted for APC. ” The outcome was meant to rob us of victory and put our party in disarray as well as raise unnecessary dust in the area. But we are not bothered.” An  APC youth leader in Ekiti East,  Gbade Olusegun , pointed out that  Senator  Adeyeye emerged through a transparent and credible election, contrary to the hard stand taken by the Tribunal. Olusegun said:  ” It was unfortunate that the tribunal acted contrary to the wishes of the people by  awarding undeserved victory to the PDP candidate . We assure that the celebration by the opposition members would be shortlived. “The tribunal had delivered its verdict, which is more or less, a joy that will soon be truncated. Senator Adeyeye is a man of the people and  we will not allow  the mandate given to him to be stolen by PDP .” The APC Woman leader ,  Rachael Ibukun , expressed the hope that the Court of Appeal would redress what she described as “jungle Justice” handed down by the tribunal. “The  judiciary is supposed to be the bastion of the common man and we are confident that what the opposition has now is  a pyrrhic victory,” Ibukun added..  Vanguard News  By Rotimi Ojomoyela The  All Progressives Congress(APC) in Ekiti State, has described the Tribunal verdict that sacked the Senator representing Ekiti South Senatorial district, Prince Dayo Adeyeye,  as a travesty of justice. The party said it won February 23, 2019, Senatorial election in the state. In a unanimous verdict, the… September 18, 2019 In "News" The All Progressive Congress in Ekiti State suffered a setback on Tuesday as the Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Ado Ekiti nullified the election of Senator Dayo Adeyeye. September 10, 2019 In "News" CHAIRMAN, Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye,  All Progressives Congress, APC, Ekiti South yesterday alleged that the judgment against him by the Tribunal which sacked him  was Purchased. September 10, 2019 In "News"