Belgium’s former world number one Kim Clijsters announced on Thursday her return to competitive tennis in 2020, seven years after retiring to become a stay-at-home mum of three children. The 36-year-old four-time singles Grand Slam champion said she loved being a mum but missed the adrenalin of the tennis world tour. “These last seven years I’ve been a full-time mum. And I love it, I really do. But I also loved being a professional tennis player. And honestly I miss that feeling,” she said on Twitter. Clijsters won the US Open in 2005, 2009 and 2010, and the Australian Open in 2011. She initially retired in 2007 aged 23, making a return two years later after having her first child to win her second US Open, then hanging up her racquet again after the 2012 US Open. In a 51-second video on social media she asks: “Could I be a loving mum to three kids, and the best tennis player I can possibly be? “Let’s do this. Let’s come back one more time. See you in 2020.” READ ALSO: Serena keeps calm and carries on in pursuit of number 24 Her return next season was warmly welcomed by WTA chairman Steve Simon. “Kim Clijsters ranks among the greats of the game and her return to the Tour is exciting news for the WTA family and tennis fans around the world,” he said. Clijsters made her WTA debut aged 15 at Antwerp in 1999. She has 41 singles titles, and is the only mother to top the WTA charts since computer rankings began in 1975. Despite her lengthy time out she still ranks third among active players in terms of tournament success behind the Williams sisters — Serena with 72 titles and Venus with 49. As well as her singles Grand Slam titles she won two more in doubles at the French Open and Wimbledon with Ai Sugiyama in 2003. She told the WTA’s official website that her motivation to come out of retirement wasn’t that she felt she still had something to prove but rather for “the challenge”. “I have friends who would say, I want to run the New York Marathon before I turn 50. For me, I still love to play tennis,” she said. As a former world number one she can expect unlimited wildcards next season. VANGUARD New Mum Serena Williams will be playing in Australia in January to defend her title, her coach Frenchman Patrick Mouratoglou hinted on Twitter on Friday. September 2, 2017 In "Sports" Former world number one Maria Sharapova qualified for the quarter-finals of the Shenzhen WTA after struggling against China's great tennis hope Wang Xinyu, who was forced to retire from the match in pain. January 2, 2019 In "Sports" Kei Nishikori suffered fresh Wimbledon misery as the Japanese star crashed out on Friday, while Victoria Azarenka stepped up her bid to become the first mother to win the All England Club title for 37 years. July 7, 2017 In "News"