Real Madrid spent more than €300m during the summer but they are painfully short on quality in every area of the pitch, as a 3-0 loss at PSG proved. Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) opened their Champions League campaign with a 3-0 rout of the 13-time winners at the Parc des Princes on Wednesday and it was even more of a stroll than the emphatic scoreline suggests. And this despite the fact that Thomas Tuchel’s side were without the suspended Neymar, and injured duo Kylian Mbappe and Edinson Cavani. With the accuracy and ruthlessness of that trio, Madrid could have been left with a far more embarrassing scoreline to ruminate over on the way back to the Spanish capital. Instead, a delightful double from Angel Di Maria and Thomas Meunier’s late strike did the trick for PSG, who reminded everyone that they can be a force at this level. Hardly surprising, then, that former Barcelona star Neymar was grinning like a Cheshire cat in the stands, as the club he wanted to leave during the summer annihilated one of those he could have joined. There were no smiles from Zinedine Zidane, though. Real Madrid invested more than €300 million (£265m/$330m) in the Frenchman’s squad over the course of the summer and yet Zidane’s rebuild looks half-baked, with the midfield particularly short on quality. Of course, Paul Pogba had been one of the coach’s primary transfer targets but the Manchester United eluded Madrid, as did other midfield targets, including Tottenham’s Christian Eriksen. That has left Zidane with almost the same core as last season, only weaker after the departure of Marcos Llorente to Atletico Madrid. (Goal.com) Vanguard Nigeria News. Paris Saint-Germain brushed off the ongoing Neymar transfer saga by kicking off their Ligue 1 title defence with a straightforward 3-0 victory over Nimes on Sunday. The 27-year-old Neymar was left out of the squad the day after PSG sporting director Leonardo said talks about a possible sale of the… August 11, 2019 In "Sports" Angel Di Maria kept up his irresistible form as a Paris Saint-Germain side missing Neymar, Edinson Cavani and Kylian Mbappe defeated Troyes 2-0 ahead of their Champions League showdown with Real Madrid. March 3, 2018 In "Sports" While Neymar's untimely injury is a huge blow to Paris Saint-Germain, it does represent a golden opportunity for Angel di Maria and other members of their expensively assembled squad. March 2, 2018 In "Sports"