ENERGY experts in the country have met at Abuja  to brainstorm on measures for a sustainable Biogas technology adaptation and utilization in Nigeria as an alternative energy source for economic development capable of unlocking foreign direct  investment in the country. The experts at the 3rd  Federal University of Petroleum/University of Abuja Higher Education Partnership for Sub-Saharan Africa (HEP-SSA) project: Biogas for Sustainable  Energy and Off-grid project sharing workshop, focused on the need for Nigeria to have a policy framework for implementation as an urgent and necessary way forward to obtaining energy through Biogas production. In a communique at the end of the workshop which had paper presentations from the academia in the energy sector, the experts who spoke lamented the energy deficit in the country, lack of biogas standards, its prospects and challenges, lack of adequate public awareness among others challenges bedeviling the country. Why Nigeria faces severe climate problems — Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) In a resolution signed by the FUPRE-HEP-SSA project coordinator and local organizing committee chairman, Engr. Omonigho Otanocha and Dr. Musa Zarmai at the end of the event, the experts resolved that policy formation and implementation is a necessity at the current stage of biogas development construction  and utilization in Nigeria. Other resolutions reached include: The need to adhere to standards which must be developed and adhered to, research, development and retraining; among others. Vanguard Mr Micheal Kotter, the Chief Executive Officer, International Biogas and Bioenergy Centre of Competence  (IBBK) German y says Nigeria has enough biomass capacity to provide its electricity. August 24, 2017 In "News" Abuja— The Petroleum Technology Development Fund, PTDF, yesterday, pledged its commitment to sponsor more research on the production of biofuels and biogas from non-edible fruits, in response to the global drive for environment-friendly source of energy. August 18, 2016 In "News" The Petroleum Technology Development Fund, PTDF, has announced plans to establish a research and development centre for biofuels and other alternative energy sources in Nigeria. Speaking at the Close Out seminar of the 2012/2013 Annual Oil and Gas Research Grant Competition in Abuja, the Executive Secretary of the PTDF, Mr.… August 13, 2015 In "News"