Prof. Peter Okebukola  on Thursday opposed the request  by the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT)  Lagos State wing  to convert some non -teaching staff to classroom  teachers. Okebukola, a former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC),  spoke to Newsmen in Lagos. The NUT ,Lagos State wing, had demanded that the state government should train and convert some non-teaching staff who were already used to classroom work to teachers. The NUT had said this would cushion the effect of shortage of teachers in the state public primary schools since the workers were already on the government’s payroll. ” I am 100 per cent opposed to a situation where you get non – teaching staff and then bundle them to class to go and teach ,” Okebukola said. According to him, a teacher needs to rely  on three-knowledge basis:  content  knowledge in the subject the teacher is  expected to teach. Also the teacher must have pedagogy knowledge,which is the knowledge on how to teach and also pedagogy content knowledge, which is the combination of the initial two, he said. The former NUC boss said  that anybody in the world that had not got the three-knowledge basis had no place in the classroom. ” You cannot say because you are short of teachers ,then you go bundle people to the classroom. “You are going to worsen the situation, as 10 years down the line, the educational system will collapse and even enter the Atlantic Ocean. “If you want quality education ,get the teachers’ factor right because a third of quality education is explained by the quality of teachers, ” he said. The don, however,  said  that the best solution to the problem was to recruit people and train them on the three-knowledge basis before allowing them to go teach in the classroom. Vanguard Former Executive Secretary, National Universities Commision (NUC), Chairman of Council, Crawford University and Chairman, Board of Trustees, Caleb University, Professor Peter Okebukola has thrown his weight behind President Muhammadu Buhari on the need for quality teachers, adding that to reconstruct the shattered education mirror, there are  hard choices we cannot… November 30, 2017 In "Education" The Lagos State University, LASU has stated that Prof. Peter Okebukola followed due process in submission of his age. April 9, 2019 In "News" Prof. Peter Okebukola, a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Comission (NUC), says greater attention to teacher’s preparation, happiness and welfare, will ultimately translate to good quality education in the  country. Okebukola said this in an interview with Newsmen on the sidelines of the Lagos State University (LASU) Faculty… September 12, 2019 In "Education"