Renowned blogger and socialite, Linda Ikeji, celebrated her 39th birthday on Thursday 19th of September, 2019 in Dubai with friends and family but controversial journalist, Kemi Olunloyo claims Linda is not revealing her real age to the public. While wishing her a happy birthday, the controversial character pointed out that Linda is 43 years old as opposed to what she and Wikipedia are saying. “Happy 43rd birthday to Linda Ikeji. Fans, Wikipedia age is 39th birthday,” she wrote. Gifty, Mr 2kay at war over child paternity(Opens in a new browser tab) The mother of one, who recently celebrated her son’s first birthday, took to her Instagram page to announce this is going to be her last year in her thirties and also to show appreciation to God for her journey and her many blessings. “My last year as a 30 something year old but I am so grateful for how far God has brought me. For all the blessings I don’t take for granted; for my son, parents, siblings, great friends, and loyal fans, everyone who has followed my journey and to you reading this. Happy birthday to me! Thank you so much for all the well wishes. God bless you and yours,” she wrote. Vanguard While Nigerian are felicitating with the richest blogger in the land, Linda Ikeji, on the birth of her first child at thirty-seven, controversial blogger, Kemi Olunloyo has crashed the party, saying it was all a ruse, that, Linda was never pregnant but paid a surrogate mother N1.8M for the birth… September 18, 2018 In "News" THE Nigerian entertainment industry experienced its share of highs, lows and tragedy in 2018. The death of music legend, Ras Kimono and his wife, Efemena Okedi, which shocked the industry. There were also controversies, feuds and the premiere of groundbreaking movies which defined the outgoing year. But beyond all that,… December 28, 2018 In "Entertainment" Cossy vs Iyabo Ojo vs Daniella Okeke Busty actress, Cossy Ojiakor revealed her disdain for fellow actresses, Iyabo Ojo,  Daniella Okeke and Apostle Suleman of Omega Fire Ministries via her Instagram page on Easter day. Iyabo Ojo and Daniella Okeke had earlier been accused of warming the beds of popular… December 28, 2018 In "News"