It is no longer news that when Governor Emeka Ihedioha took his oath of office, he promised to respect the rule of law, serve with honesty, transparency and the fear of God, in the process of rebuilding the state. Some concerned people have had their say on the journey so far, but it would not be out of place to take a critical look at what has happened so far, to the state and its people. In doing this, there is no conscious wish to delve into the activities of the legislative and judicial arms of government, within the period under review. One of the first things Ihedioha did soon after he was declared winner of the gubernatorial election, was the constitution of a Transition Technical Committee, TTC, that was to set a clear path for the administration, in the rebuilding process, among other things. I killed 16 of my victims, offered their blood for ritual — kidnap kingpin(Opens in a new browser tab) The Committee came up with a development agenda they called Imo Growth and Strategic Development Plan, G-SDP. In the thinking of the Committee, the G-SDP would include, but not limited to  the delivery of 381 kilometers of rural access road projects, restoration of an improved Owerri Master Plan, restoration of water supply in Owerri municipality, roll-out of a State health insurance scheme, as well as the reactivation of four technical education institutions in the state. Other areas of interest include an economic growth and strategic development initiatives along five sub-themes of Human Capital Development, Agriculture, Food Security, Infrastructure, Industrialization and Job Creation, as well as Security and Environment. To achieve these lofty goals and in line with his transparency and accountability mantra, the Governor quickly  signed into law, Executive Order 005, known as Treasury Single Account, TSA, Order to consolidate all government revenues under one account. Imo Tribunal: A victory for Imo people, says Chief Onuoha(Opens in a new browser tab) One issue that gave Imo people sleepless nights, was the arbitrary tax collection system that subsisted in the last eight years. For now,  all cash tax payments have been banned while Government has mandated the use of the PayDirect platform with a single source sweeping of revenue. This, we understand, has started addressing the issue of multiple accounts and leakages, and the IGR has grown from an all-time low of about N300 million in July, to N600 million in August. Added to this, is the harmonization of taxes payable in the state, with a view to eliminating multiple taxation. Government is  also developing what it calls the Imo Growth and Economic Development Fund, which would serve as an investment catalyst for the Imo State economy. To say that Ihedioha inherited a civil service that lacked motivation, amounts to stating the obvious. Salaries were delayed, and when they were paid, the workers were underpaid by, sometimes, as much as 30 percent of what was rightly due to them. A committee that was set up to  look into cases of improper or irregular appointments, promotions and other related matters, have since turned in their report. Following the committee’s recommendation, government subsequently restored  payment of 100 percent salaries to all workers in the state, recalled all unjustly suspended Directors, reversed some undeserved promotions and sponsored officers to capacity building programmes. Similarly, Local Government workers have been paid the backlog of salaries owed them by the last administration. With all these in place, it is safe to say that there is a renewed sense of motivation in the Imo civil service. Imo of this day and age, has a swath of collapsed  infrastructures. All the roads built by the state are in a very bad shape, despite the billions of Naira purportedly spent on them by the Rochas Okorocha administration. To tackle this scourge,  contracts for the reconstruction of 14 critical roads across the State, have been awarded, to relieve the people’s sufferings. These includes the Naze-Nekede-Ihiagwa-Obinze road, Ahiara Junction-Okpala Road, Aba Branch-Ahiara Junction road and the Imo Stare Teaching Hospital Road. Others include, the Umuowa-Old Orlu Road; MCC-Toronto Road; Mgbidi–Oguta road; Ogwoghoranya-Avutu, with spur at Avutu Poultry Farm Road and the Douglas–Emmanuel College-Naze Junction road. Fayemi offsets victims’ bills of FUOYE crisis(Opens in a new browser tab) Also captured in under this phase of road reconstruction are the Assumpta-Port Harcourt Road Okigwe Okpara Road-Police Station Road, Control Post-World Bank–Umuguma Road, Okigwe Road-IMSU-Bishop Court Roundabout Road and the Concorde Boulevard Ring Road-Zuma–PH Road. Seven of these roads have been flaggef off. Similarly, about a week ago, at Onuimo, Isu and Mbaitoli Local Government Areas, the Governor flagged off one of the most ambitious rural road construction projects, valued at N13.5 billion. It is a World Bank assisted Rural Access and Mobility Project, RAMP, which involves over 70 rural road networks with a cumulative distance of 381 kilometers across most of the 27 Local Government Areas of the state. Security is another area that has been giving the citizenry cause for worry. However, government has inaugurated Operation Iron Gate, to combat  crimes and criminalities, as well as rid the state of all undesirable elements. Vanguard It is no longer news that when Governor Emeka Ihedioha took his oath of office, he promised to respect the rule of law, serve with honesty, transparency and the fear of God, in the process of rebuilding the state. September 14, 2019 In "Viewpoint" Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State, yesterday, said those offended by him and the state should forgive and join his agenda to rebuild IMO. July 5, 2019 In "News" The immediate past governor of Imo state, yesterday tackled the current governor, Emeka Ihedioha, asking him to face the governance issues in the state. June 9, 2019 In "News"