The Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) has said that the Federal Government’s decision to restrict sales of foreign exchange at official rate for food import is good for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the country. Chairman, NASME, Lagos State Chapter, Mr. Solomon Aderoju, stated this in Lagos at a press briefing, adding that the policy statement will help in strengthening the country’s currency. Aderoju pointed out that forex restriction will help conserve Nigeria’s foreign earnings, adding that it will ultimately enhance the already weakened Naira. He commended the government for the giant stride, noting that it will make MSMEs to grow and create more jobs if well implemented. In his remark, Vice President, South West, NASME, Oladipo Jemi-Alade, the government pronouncement offers new opportunity for NASME members and other manufacturers in the country to explore the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCTA) agreement. Buhari requests Ecobank’s collaboration on Government’s Intervention in Agriculture(Opens in a new browser tab) He stated: “Now that AfCTA is open unto us, we have to be prepared for the next level. We want to be in a position to compete favourably with our foreign counterparts. For this reason, we are upgrading our skills, and we have embarked on membership training nationwide to build skills and capacity.” Also speaking, Adam Adebayo, Chairman, NASME Cooperative, noted that over 200 members have accessed the Anchor Borrowers Fund, stressing that the group has been advocating ban on imported food to enable them process and sell their local produce. Adebayo said: “We have been exporting primary produce, but now that there is new development, we are happy because we would be able to add value by processing all our produce through our value chain. With this, the government will now bring back the Commodity Board, which will be responsible for price control so that the farmers will not record losses.” Vanguard The Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, NASME has called on the federal government to grant at least five years tax holiday for small and medium enterprises in the country to boost the growth of the sector. September 11, 2016 In "Business" The Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) has charged micro, small and medium enterprises under its fold to take advantage of the extended deadline of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) tax penalty and interest waiver before it closese. December 18, 2016 In "Finance" The Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (NASME) has called on Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to take advantage of opportunities offered tax payers through the Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) to regularize their tax status by June 30 2018 to avoid prosecution for tax offences. June 28, 2018 In "Business"