Pope Francis will visit Thailand and Japan in November in a visit expected to highlight his call for complete nuclear disarmament and honour the small Catholic communities in each country. The Vatican confirmed the Nov 19-26 trip, and its diplomatic representative in Thailand, Archbishop Paul Tschang In-Nam, announced the Thai stop on Friday. Francis will be in Thailand on Nov. 20-23 before heading to Japan, where government spokesman Yoshihide Suga said he would meet with the emperor. The Associated Press News reported thus will be Francis’ fourth trip to Asia, where he has already visited South Korea, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Myanmar and Bangladesh. The last pope to visit Japan was the late Saint Pope John Paul II in 1981. He was also the last pope to visit Thailand, in 1984. During his official visit to Thailand, Francis will preside at religious ceremonies and pay pastoral visits to Catholic communities. Francis’s Japan visit includes Tokyo as well as Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which were hit by U.S. atomic bombs at the end of World War II. Francis has frequently spoken out about the risk of nuclear war, most emphatically during a 2017 disarmament conference at the Vatican where he signaled a shift in church teaching about nuclear deterrence, the AP report noted. In that speech to Nobel laureates, NATO officials and diplomats, he warned that the Cold War-era strategy of deterrence was no longer viable and urged instead complete nuclear disarmament. “If we . . . take into account the risk of an accidental detonation as a result of error of any kind, the threat of (nuclear weapons’) use, as well as their very possession, is to be firmly condemned,” he said. His comments marked a shift, given previous popes including St John Paul II, had called for the abolition of nuclear weapons but had said the stockpiling of them could be morally acceptable as a form of deterrence. Vanguard. Pope Francis on Friday urged Romania’s leaders to shun personal interests and work together for the common good, arriving in the former communist country amid political upheaval caused by a corruption scandal. May 31, 2019 In "News" Mother Teresa of Calcutta, one of the most iconic figures of the 20th century, is set to become a Catholic saint on Sunday in an open-air Mass led by Pope Francis. Father Brian Kolodiejchuk, the Canadian priest who promoted her sainthood cause, said on Thursday in Vatican that hundreds of thousands… September 1, 2016 In "News" Pope Francis landed in Kenya's capital Nairobi Wednesday on the first leg of a landmark trip to Africa, with huge crowds, choirs and dancers waiting to greet him. November 25, 2015 In "News"