 The Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has inaugurated a governance programme steering committee to ensure uniformity of policy initiatives in all the APC controlled states. Gov. Mohammed Badaru of Jigawa, who is the Chairman of the committee, said this at a news conference in Abuja on Friday.
Badaru said that all the APC governors had agreed to key into the policy document to be designed by the steering committee.
According to him, the essence of the committee is to sharpen the identity of the APC governors. He said governance programmes such as agriculture and education would be looked into and adopted as uniform policies in all the APC controlled states.
According to him, the idea is to ensure that APC emerges as a distinctly social democratic party when compared to other political parties. “The mandate of the Governance Programme Steering Committee is to focus more on strengthening the capacity of our states to have increased commitment to implement approved initiatives.
“This may require more initiatives around issues of capacity development for the functionaries of our state. This will have to be well-tailored around the initiatives we subscribed to rather than the generic approach,” he said. Gov. Simon Lalong of Plateau, who is co-chairman of the committee, said that the idea would settle all public debates around the distinction between APC and other parties in the state. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Prof. Sonni Tyoden, said that uniformity of policy initiatives among the APC states was fundamental to achieve the vision of the party Vanguard News By Omeiza Ajayi Governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) under the aegis of Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) have set up a Governance Programme Steering Committee to evolve a common governance template for themselves and as well revisit all policy initiatives and recommendations, including those of the Gov. Nasir… September 20, 2019 In "News" Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Governors on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC)  have set up a Governance Programme Steering Committee to evolve a common governance template for themselves and as well revisit all policy initiatives and recommendations, including those of Governor Nasir El-Rufai 's Committee on True Federalism.… September 20, 2019 In "News" Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said that much as there are peculiarities in All Progressives Congress (APC)-controlled states across Nigeria, there is need for synergy for peer review to replicate success stories of the party across the country. March 9, 2018 In "News"