The Minister of Communications Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim has explained that he ordered the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC to ensure all mobile network operators block all SIM cards that do not meet proper registration standards until users comply with proper reregistration procedures because of their security risk. The directive, he said was a follow up to his earlier directives on assumption of office to all Agencies and Parastatals in the ministry, which led to the submission of NCC’s baseline short-term performance targets report to the minister. For the minister, the security implication of the irregularity in the registration of the said Sim cards is too grave to ignore and vowed that the Ministry will not tolerate any actions or inactions that will compromise the nation’s security. The report signed by the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta contained precise figures of improperly registered SIM cards in use around the country. The Commission in its report disclosed that an estimated nine million two hundred thousand (9.2M) SIM cards did not comply with the proper procedures of SIM registration. A statement by the new spokesperson of the minister, Uwa Suleiman indicated that the investigation which was carried out at the behest of the minister exposed for the first time in the Telecoms history of Nigeria, in precise detail, the magnitude of defaulters. The statement reads in part: ‘‘In line with the directives of the Minister of Communications Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami FNCS FBCS MCPN on assumption of office to all Agencies and Parastatals under his purview, the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC) has submitted its baseline short-term performance targets report. READ ALSO: NCC arrests 200 agents over alleged fraudulent activation of Sim cards ‘‘The report Signed by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Commission contained precise figures of improperly registered SIM cards in use around the country. ‘‘The Commission in its report disclosed that an estimated nine million two hundred thousand (9.2M) SIM cards did not comply with the proper procedures of SIM registration. ‘‘The investigation which was carried out at the behest of the minister, has exposed for the first time in the Telecomms history of Nigeria, in precise detail, the magnitude of defaulters. ‘‘To ensure maximum compliance, Dr Pantami, has directed NCC to ensure all mobile network operators block all SIM cards that do not meet proper registration standards until users comply with proper reregistration procedures. ‘‘The security implication of this irregularity is too grave to ignore and the Federal Ministry of Communications will not tolerate any actions or inactions that will compromise the nation’s security.’’ VANGUARD The Federal Government has directed telecommunication operators, through the Nigeria Communication Commission (NCC) to block about 9.2 million sim cards without proper registration. September 13, 2019 In "News" The newly appointed Minister of Communications Dr. Isa Pantami, appears to have hit the ground running with a target to all the ministries directorates and agencies under his supervision. September 4, 2019 In "Technology" It appears the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has began to feel the heat generated from the recent deactivation of improperly registered SIM cards in the country. Although this exercise had been forewarned since two years ago, it actually dawned on the subscribers last week when the regulator ordered the immediate… August 26, 2015 In "News"