The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated Gov. Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom state and his Taraba counterpart, Darius Ishaku for their victories at the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal. The party gave the commendation in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan on Friday in Abuja. He described the upholding of the elections of the governors as triumph of the collective will and aspirations of the people of the two states as amply expressed in the March governorship elections. He said that the spontaneous jubilations that greeted the verdict across the two states were resounding testimonies of the legitimacy and acceptance of the leadership of the governors. Ologbondiyan said that the  PDP was particularly happy to observe the commitment of Udom in developing Akwa Ibom. “In Taraba, the PDP salutes  Ishaku’s massive developmental stride in vital sectors, especially agriculture, education, infrastructural projects, security, among others, in spite of daunting challenges,” he said. He added that the PDP also applauded the members of the tribunal for their courage and patriotism in delivering justice in the interest of the people. Ologbondiyan  urged the governors as well as all other officials elected and appointed on its platform to continue to render selfless services to their people. He said that such should be done in line with the manifesto and guiding principles of the PDP as a party committed to the wellbeing of Nigerians at all times. Vanguard Taraba State Governor Darius Ishaku, yesterday, said his Ondo State counterpart, Ayodele Fayose, was instrumental to the victory he secured at the Supreme Court to retain his seat as governor after losing in a dramatic manner at the Court of Appeal. May 1, 2016 In "News" GOVERNOR Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has congratulated governors of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP-controlled states that emerged as governorship candidates of the party at the primaries in their respective states. October 2, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and his Abia counterpart, Okezie Ikpeazu over the Governorship Elections Petition Tribunals judgment which upheld their elections. September 20, 2019 In "News"