The Nigeria Labour Congress(NLC), has ascribed the killings and destruction of Nigerians and their property in South Africa to failure of governance. The labour union added that the mass migration of Nigerians abroad for greener pastures is an indictment on the government and indication of poor management of resources. The Labour centre said, the inability of the government to provide enabling environment for its citizens forced Nigerians to seek greener pastures in other better Climes, thereby subjecting them to attacks. NLC appealed to Nigerians not to destroy the property and businesses of South African nationals over the xenophobic actions, saying such would further compound the unemployment problems at home. The NLC Chairman in Ekiti State, Com. Kolapo Olatunde said this on Monday bday in Ado Ekiti, during a telephone chat with newsmen. According to him, the solution to xenophobia is for Nigerian governments to provide reliable jobs for its citizens. “This situation was very unfortunate. It confirms that our government has not done enough to protect us in terms of the provision of employment. “Nigeria remains one of the worst countries that suffered the highest incidences of brain drain. It is sad Nigerians would have to leave their country and sojourn to an economically weaker country like South Africa and be searching for jobs. “We saw how Nigerians are being killed, beaten and their property destroyed. I know that the crisis can be resolved through diplomatic means, but the best way to save Nigerians from this kind of embarrassment is to provide jobs for them at home. ” If they are at home, they will be safer on their own fatherland”, he said. On the protests being staged by Nigerians culminating in the destruction of property and investments belonging to South Africans, Olatunde advised that Nigerians shouldn’t act in a manner that would portray them as lawless citizens. “The fact that the South Africans decided to be lawless doesn’t mean we should toe their line of action. We must let the entire world knows that we believe in African unity. “I want to commend the Nigerian citizens for rising up to defend their fellow citizens. This confirmed that they still see themselves as indivisible entity”, Olatunde said.  THE Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, yesterday, condemned the attacks on businesses and killings of Nigerians in South Africa. September 5, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has called on the Federal Government to partner with the African Union to kick against maltreatment of African migrants by the European countries. May 4, 2017 In "News" The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), on Tuesday in Abuja said the South African Government should be held responsible for the xenophobic attacks in that country. April 21, 2015 In "News"