The Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) has called for a reform of the national budgetary process and its disciplined implementation to engender national growth. The Director-General of NECA, Mr Timothy Olawale, said in a statement in Lagos on Monday that late passage of the national budget and below 50 percent implementation over the years had contributed to Nigeria’s slow growth.  “Nigeria’s fiscal year begins in January and ends in December; hence, we cannot begin to imagine the dire consequences of the late passage of the budget on national development and business growth,” he said. Olawale said that the earliest time the national budget was passed was in March 2016, saying that the attempt to return the nation to a January to December budgetary year was a welcome development.  According to Olawale, beyond enabling the government to focus on the business of development, it will also improve investors’ confidence and aid planning for both the private and public sectors. “Businesses thrive on the certainty of government policies and programmes; a return to January to December fiscal year and focus on the implementation of the same will, no doubt, accelerate national development.  “Implementation is largely based on the availability of revenue; however, the government should do well to ensure fiscal discipline, cut wastage and put more life into the war against corruption,” he said. The DG urged both the executive and legislature to ensure full implementation of the budget. Source: NAN  Vanguard News Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, NECA, has warned that continued delay in the passage of 2019 federal budget is unhealthy for the nation’s economic recovery and pleaded with the National Assembly to speed up the passage to spur economic activities. February 5, 2019 In "Business" THE Nigeria Employers' Consultative Association, NECA, yesterday, pleaded with the Federal Government to immediately send a draft bill on the N30,000 new national minimum wage to the National Assembly, NASS, for passage into law to save the nation from the consequences of the strike planned by Organised Labour in January… December 28, 2018 In "News" Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, NECA, has expressed fears over the national budget recently presented to the National Assembly by President Muhammadu Buhari, saying the foundation on which the budget was built is worrisome. January 8, 2019 In "News"