The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and his Abia counterpart, Okezie Ikpeazu over the Governorship Elections Petition Tribunals judgment which upheld their elections. The party in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan said the verdicts placed a seal on the acceptance of the governors as demonstrated in their landslide victory at the March election in both states. Breaking: Gov Emmanuel defeats Ekere at Akwa Ibom guber tribunal(Opens in a new browser tab) Ologbondiyan said the report of celebrations in the states at the breaking of the news of the verdict was a testimony that indeed justice was upheld in the rulings. He said that like other governors elected on the platform of the PDP, Okowa and Ikpeazu stand out in their commitments towards developing their states in spite of prevailing challenges. These according to him include the massive infrastructural projects in key sectors such as manufacturing, agriculture, oil and gas, power, road infrastructure, education among others. “The PDP urges the governors not to relent but to uphold their commitments in delivering on their mandates for the good of all, in line with the manifesto of the PDP,” he said. (NAN) Vanguard The Supreme Court, on Wednesday night, affirmed the election of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State. February 3, 2016 In "News" THE Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, family in Delta State heaved a sigh of relief when the news of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s victory at the Court of Appeal filtered in from Abuja at about 2pm on December 24, 2015, a day before Christmas. January 2, 2016 In "News" ASABA—THE Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, has said the judgment of the Delta State Election Petition Tribunal, upholding the elections of all those elected into the state House of Assembly, National Assembly as well as the governorship election, has vindicated the commission in the conduct of the 2015 elections in… October 30, 2015 In "News"