MEMBER representing Khana/Gokana federal constituency, in the House of Representatives, Dumnamene Dekor, yesterday, condemned the attacks on Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State over the demolition of a non-existent mosque in Port Harcourt. Dekor, former Rivers Works Commissioner, in a statement, yesterday, in Port Harcourt, wondered why, despite the fact that the falsehood in mosque demolition had been exposed, those criticising Wike were not pointing fingers at Transportation Minister, Chibuike Amaechi, under whose governorship the contentious structure was first demolished.  He said at no time was a mosque built on the said site, adding that no records from his predecessors showed that a mosque existed there throughout his time as Rivers State Works Commissioner. READ ALSO: FG begins clampdown on illegal gas plants, roadside LPG retailers – Official He said  ownership issue of the land, having been resolved by a subsisting court judgment in suit Number PHC/986/2012 between Registered Trustees of Trans Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt (claimant) vs  the Commissioner, Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning, Rivers State, the governor of Rivers State and the Attorney-General of Rivers State (defendants), the matter should have been put to rest.  He said: “To every rational thinker, one again wonders why there was no hue and cry against Amaechi. Why all these noise against Wike?  It clearly shows that there is more to all these than meets the eye. “These enemies of the state are fanning embers of hate against Governor Wike, rooting to burn down the state just because they no longer have any stake in Rivers for the simple reason that they have long been rejected by the people.” VANGUARD GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike of Rivers State, before the government of Germany, yesterday, passed a vote of no confidence in the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, saying that the body lacks the capacity to conduct credible elections in the country. February 22, 2018 In "News" The Supreme Council for Shari’ah in Nigeria, on Monday condemned Gov. Nyisom Wike of Rivers for ordering the demolition of a Jumaat mosque in Port Harcourt. September 2, 2019 In "News" A member of the House of Representatives,  representing Warri Federal Constituency, Mr. Daniel Reyenieju has lambasted the Federal Government for its refusal to set up a team to go into full negotiation with the genuine representatives of the crude oil and gas bearing communities in the Niger Delta region. June 19, 2018 In "News"