The Commissioner of Police, FCT, CP Bala Ciroma on Monday confirmed that Miss Aisha Ardo, the kidnapped daughter of a cousin to former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, Dr. Umar Ardo has been released. It was gathered that Aisha was released in Abuja around 11:00 p.m. on Sunday night after spending the whole of Saturday night in the hands of the kidnappers. Recall that 24-year-old Aisha was whisked away by the kidnappers at about 7.45 pm in front of Blinkers Shopping Mall at Kwame Nkurumah Crescent, Asokoro on Saturday evening prompting the FCT Police Command to launch a manhunt for her abductors. Umar Ardo, a PDP Chieftain also confirmed the release of her daughter to the Police authorities in Abuja on Monday. He said She was released on Sunday night around 11 pm adding that Unmi is fine and she is with the family at home. Those the CP did not elaborate on her release, sources said Aisha was taken to a forest close to Gwarinpa area of the nation’s capital, where she was kept until her release. “It was from the forest that she trekked to an eatery from where she was assisted with a GSM to call her father, who drove to the eatery to pick up his daughter”. Vanguard Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja Unknown gunmen on weekend kidnapped Miss Ai’shat Umar Ardo (Ummi), the daughter of Adamawa State politician, Dr Umar Ardo. Miss Ardo was said to have been kidnapped on Saturday night around 7:45pm at Blinkers Shopping Mall, Asokoro Abuja. The father of the victim, Dr Ardo, who… September 16, 2019 In "News" By Rasheed Sobowale Good morning. We have gathered the top Nigeria news headlines from Nigerian newspapers today, September 16, 2019. You can watch us LIVE every morning on Facebook. https://www.facebook.com/vanguardngr/videos/3073393699344220/   Before starting with the top news for today, contrary to recent news circulating on the death of the legendary… September 16, 2019 In "News" ABUJA— A former Special Assistant to Vice President Atiku Abubakar and a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Dr. Umar Ardo, has called for the cancellation of results of last Saturday ward congresses in Adamawa State. November 8, 2017 In "News"