The Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire has been tasked to make diabetes control and prevention a  priority in view of the large burden of the disease in the country. Making the call in a letter,  the  Diabetes Control Media Advocacy Group, DICOMAG, a media advocagy group with focus on diabetes, urged Ehanire to devise urgent and concrete measures to address the current heavy burden of the disease in all parts of the country to prevent a looming epidemic. In the letter signed by the Director of Communication, Mrs Yinka Shokunbi, DICOMAG highlighted the urgency to attend to  the alarming increase of diabetes in Nigeria, its attending complications, deadly consequences and impact on the health and overall wellbeing of the people. Expert says Nigeria capable of handling Ebola case(Opens in a new browser tab) The International Diabetes Federation  estimates that five million Nigerians are currently living with diabetes and the number of cases is increasing very fast. One in every two people with diabetes in the country is undiagnosed. Worse still, Nigeria is currently recording unacceptable number of lower extremities amputation and death from diabetes foot ulcer. In a call for adoption of policies to ensure early detection of cases and preventive measures: “More worrisome is the fact that a large number of Nigerians with diabetes only get to know of their status at an advance stage of the disease when complications have set in. DICOMAG urged the government to take a lead and encourage state governments to embark on immediate campaign for the prevention. Vanguard Diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable disorders today. April 16, 2016 In "Health" TOWARDS stemming the increasing incidence of diabetes in Nigeria, the Federal Ministry of Health is strengthening the primary healthcare system to include diabetes management  with foot care - assessment and referral - into the existing health care service at the primary healthcare level. August 19, 2019 In "Health" With Diabetes mellitus-related foot disease responsible for up to 80 per cent of limb amputations, experts of diabetic disorders have called for an effective policy that would ensure early detection and management of patients to prevent further complications from disease. August 29, 2017 In "Health"