A National Youth Service Corps member, Mr Igwe Armstrong Ageh, has donated a set of 30 desks to Government Day Secondary School, Ajiwa in Batagarawa Local Government Area of Katsina State. Ageh, while donating the desks to the school on Friday, said it was to bridge existing dirge of adequate furniture in the school. He said, even though he was not serving in the school, but he had observed during visits that some of the students were in need of desks to enhance learning in the school. “I was touched by the way the students write on their laps, that was what motivated me to do something to complement the state government’s efforts by giving them the desks. “I decided to construct the desks as part of my Community Development Service and contribution to touch the lives of the students to enable them to improve on their learning condition,” Ageh said. Ageh is currently serving in a primary school near the secondary school. The NYSC State Coordinator, Alhaji Ahidjo Yahaya, who was represented by NYSC Assistant Local Government Inspector, Mallam Buhari Bashir said that the project was a viable one which other corps members should emulate. He enjoined the students to use the opportunity and work hard in pursuing their education. In their separate remarks, the Principals of the Junior and Senior Secondary School sections, Alhaji Abusufyan Umar and Alhaji Abdullahi Dodo, appreciated the gesture, which they said was the first from any individual. The duo prayed for the NYSC and Ageh for coming to the aid of the school. Vanguard Nigeria News STAFF and students of Community Secondary School, Opolo in Yenagoa Local Government Area, Bayelsa State were thrilled by the gesture of Dr Olivia Ayozie, a youth corps member, who donated 20 units of three seater desks to their institution as part of her community development efforts. March 22, 2016 In "Education" The Benue state Executive Council has suspended the state’s Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism, Mr. Sekav Iyortyom, for three months pending the determination of an alleged murder charges against him. December 16, 2016 In "News" Deputy Majority Leader Delta State House of Assembly and lawmaker representing Bomadi Constituency, Hon. Kenneth Oboro Preyor, had distributed about 2,800 dual sitter desks and 150 teacher’s tables worth millions of naira to all government secondary schools in the constituency to salvage students and teachers of the carry-your-seat-from-home custom. November 13, 2017 In "News"