President of Iran, Hassan Rouhani on Friday slammed the U.S. and Saudi plot aimed at blaming the recent attacks on Saudi Aramco oil facilities in Tehran. Following the attacks, Saudi Arabia together with the U.S. and several European countries has accused Iran of being behind the act. However, the Yemeni Houthi movement had claimed full responsibility. The senior official also noted that Tehran was ready to sit down for talks with the U.S. on a nuclear deal as soon as Washington lifts sanctions. Rouhani said, “we have said openly that we are ready for negotiations, but not amid sanctions and pressure. “I have  been asked, when are you ready to do it, and I have answered that I’m ready to take part in a 5+1 meeting even in just one hour, but a proper atmosphere should be created prior to that.’’ On 20 September, the Trump administration imposed new economic sanctions against Iran, targeting its central bank and its sovereign wealth fund. The move came in response to the Sept. 14 attack on Saudi Aramco oil facilities that caused major fires and partially disrupted the country’s oil production, affecting global oil prices. Following the attack, a number of countries, including Saudi Arabia, the U.S., the UK, and Germany blamed the attack on Iran. The Saudi Defence Ministry held a press conference to present what it described as evidence of Iran’s involvement in the attacks. Iran has denied all accusation, pointing out that the Yemeni Houthi movement has claimed responsibility for the attack. Source: NAN Vanguard News The United States Department of the Treasury on Friday slapped sanctions on Iran's central bank and its sovereign wealth fund, ratcheting up the pressure on Tehran nearly a week after attacks on Saudi Arabia's oil infrastructure that Riyadh and Washington have blamed on Iran. Speaking at a White House press… September 21, 2019 In "Foreign" The United Kingdom's Prime Minister, Boris Johnson has blamed Iran for attacks on Saudi Arabian oil facilities ahead of a meeting with the country's president, Hassan Rouhani. Mr Johnson said there was a "very high degree of probability" Iran was behind the drone and missile attacks on two oil facilities,… September 23, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States and Iran are set to put forward their competing visions of security in the Middle East to the United Nations General Assembly this week, with US President Donald Trump expected to address the gathering of world leaders on Tuesday, and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani the following day.… September 23, 2019 In "Foreign"