Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, has declared his readiness to waive his constitutional immunity to “enable the most robust adjudication” of several baseless allegations, insinuation and falsehoods against his person and office. Professor Osinbajo made this declaration in a tweet he personally authored this on Wednesday. ALSO READ: October 1 declared public holiday Below is the full text of his tweet: “In the past few days, a spate of reckless and malicious falsehoods have been peddled in the media against me by a group of malicious individuals. “The defamatory and misleading assertions invented by this clique had mostly been making the social media rounds anonymously. “I have today instructed the commencement of legal action against two individuals, one Timi Frank and another Katch Ononuju, who have put their names to these odious falsehoods. “I will waive my constitutional immunity to enable the most robust adjudication of these claims of libel and malicious falsehood.” In the past few days, a spate of reckless and malicious falsehoods have been peddled in the media against me by a group of malicious individuals. The defamatory and misleading assertions invented by this clique have been making the social media rounds anonymously. — Prof Yemi Osinbajo (@ProfOsinbajo) September 25, 2019  Vanguard The Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, has denied claims by a political activist, Timi Frank that the agency supported the All Progressives Congress by giving Vice President Yemi Osinbajo N90 billion. In a statement titled, “RE-Osinbajo in trouble over N90 billion FIRS election fund – Timi Frank” the agency urged… September 23, 2019 In "News" Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has given the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN, seven (7) days to resign over his flagrant violation of the Constitution and the Public Procurement Act in the approval of N5.8billion as intervention funds for the… November 12, 2018 In "News" It is not surprising that Kola Ologbodiyan, the spokesman of the PDP has taken it upon himself to repeatedly peddle falsehood against the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo just to please his paymasters. December 5, 2018 In "Viewpoint"