President Muhammadu Buhari, Wednesday said that he was unperturbed ever since the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, filled a suit at the Tribunal to challenge his February 23, victory. Disclosing this few hours after the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Abuja dismissed the petition PDP and Atiku lodged against him, the victorious Buhari said that his victory is for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. Tribunal judgement is victory for Nigerians ―Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) “Good conscience fears no evil report. I was unperturbed all along, because I knew Nigerians freely gave us the mandate. We are now vindicated,” the President declares. He dedicated the victory to God, and to Nigerians, while also commending the judiciary for “dispensing justice without fear or favour.” President Buhari extended a hand of fellowship to those who had felt aggrieved at the outcome of the election, and went to court, noting that it was within their democratic rights. He noted, however, that with the pronouncement of the judiciary, “it is time for the country to move forward as one cohesive body, putting behind us all bickering and potential distractions over an election in which Nigerians spoke clearly and resoundingly.” Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari has said the verdict of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal is a victory for Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. This was made known in a press release statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and… September 11, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has dedicated the victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal Wednesday to God and Nigerians who trooped out to overwhelmingly elect him for a second term in office. He stated this in a press release statement made available to reporters by the Special Adviser to the President… September 11, 2019 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State on Wednesday reacted to the tribunal judgment which validated the election of President Muhammadu Buhari as duly elected. September 11, 2019 In "News"