Some 2,500 people are reported missing in the Bahamas in the aftermath of Hurricane Dorian, authorities said, with the death toll expected to “significantly rise”. The list, based on missing person’s reports, had not been checked against government records of people evacuated or staying in shelters, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) spokesman, Carl Smith, said at a news conference. “The database’s processing is underway,’’ Smith said, adding that the number of missing was expected to decrease. Hundreds of weary, hopeful Bahamas evacuees arrive in Florida by ship(Opens in a new browser tab) Bahamian Prime Minister Hubert Minnis warned that while the official death toll stood at 50, “the number of deaths is expected to significantly increase’’. “We are ramping up efforts to collect those who died in the storm,’’ Minnis added in a televised address, calling Dorian a “historic tragedy”. The prime minister said that more than 5,500 people had been evacuated to the island of New Providence to date, adding that “commercial carriers will be allowed to resume flights to Abaco starting today on a limited basis’’. The storm, which made its first landfall on the Caribbean archipelago on Sept. 1, levelled entire neighbourhoods, with Grand Bahama and Abaco Islands worst hit. “Much of Abaco, as we knew it, is decimated and no longer exists. “Flood waters in the streets made them appear like the ocean. “Concrete structures were turned to dust, as if a massive bomb had exploded with atomic force,’’ Minnis said. “East Grand Bahama has been laid to waste. “Freeport, West End and much of Grand Bahama experienced horrible destruction; no living Bahamian has seen anything like this in their lifetime.’’ The hurricane was a Category 5 storm – the strongest – when it made landfall on the Abaco Islands. It then moved towards the U.S., making landfall a second time as a Category 1 storm in North Carolina before hitting Canada. Hundreds of weary Bahamians, some carrying small bags of belongings and children on their hips, disembarked a cruise ship in south Florida after fleeing the catastrophic devastation left by Hurricane Dorian. September 8, 2019 In "News" Hurricane Matthew barreled toward Florida's east coast Thursday after leaving a trail of destruction in Haiti, Cuba, and the Dominican Republic. Here's what we know about this deadly and extremely dangerous hurricane: October 6, 2016 In "News" Authorities say the death toll from the London tower block fire has risen to at least 30 and police are considering whether criminal offences had been committed. June 16, 2017 In "News"