Slovakia have won their appeal against a one-match stadium closure for the Euro 2020 qualifier against Wales in Trnava next month, UEFA announced on Thursday. European football’s governing body had imposed the closure on Slovakia for fans’ “racist chanting” during their game against Hungary in Budapest last month. But UEFA has now downgraded the punishment to a 15,000-euro fine ($16,403) for “provocative political messages”. Slovakian supporters chanted anti-Hungarian songs during their team’s 2-1 win on September 9. On Wednesday, the Slovak Football Association had said that schoolchildren may have been invited to watch the match against Wales on October 10 if its appeal had been rejected. Arsenal players vote on new captains, says Holding https://t.co/RCYNpP3hfF @vanguardngr.com #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/znonjBv0zJ — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) September 26, 2019  The Football Association of Wales had said earlier this week the decision to play the game behind closed doors would “harshly affect” Wales supporters who had already paid for travel costs to attend the match. Slovakia currently sit in the second and final qualification spot in Group E, three points and two places above Wales, who have a game in hand. VANGUARD Romania, Hungary and Slovakia have been ordered to play their next home matches in Euro 2020 qualifying behind closed doors due to racist behaviour from their supporters, UEFA announced on Monday. September 24, 2019 In "News" The Danish Football Association (DBU) is looking for replacements for regular national team players for this month’s matches against Slovakia and Wales after contract negotiations broke down. September 3, 2018 In "Sports" UEFA on Sunday threatened to kick Russia and England out of the European Championship finals if their fans are involved in more violence. The threat followed three days of violence in Marseille, culminating in pitched battles between Russian and English supporters before Saturday's match between the countries. June 12, 2016 In "Sports"