Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, said  it has lifted the trading suspension placed on the shares of Royal Exchange Plc. Royal exchange was among the 11 listed companies placed on suspension for non-compliance with Rule 3.1 relating to filing of accounts and treatment of default filing and the rulebook of the Exchange. The rule states that,  “If an Issuer fails to file the relevant accounts by the expiration of the cure period, the Exchange will send to the Issuer a ‘second filing deficiency notification’ within two business days. After the end of the cure period, it would suspend trading in the Issuer’s securities and notify the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the market within twenty- four  hours of the suspension.” I’d do it again tomorrow, Serena coach says of illicit coaching(Opens in a new browser tab) In a statement announcing the lifting of the suspension, the NSE said, “Royal Exchange Plc, which was one of the 11 companies that were suspended, has now filed its audited financial statement for the year ended December 31, 2018, to the Exchange. “In view of the company’s submission of its audited financial statements and in pursuant to Rule 3.3 of the default filing rules, which provides that the suspension of trading in the issuer’s securities shall be lifted upon submission of the relevant accounts provided, the Exchange is satisfied that the accounts comply with all applicable rules of the Exchange.” It further stated that the Exchange would, thereafter, also announce through the medium by which the public and SEC was initially notified of the suspension. Vanguard The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) yesterday, suspended six listed companies from trading their shares in the bourse (Stock Exchange). October 9, 2018 In "Business" The Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, yesterday suspended trading on the shares of six listed companies for failure to file their relevant financial accounts to the Exchange within the stipulated time. November 2, 2018 In "Business" The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has lifted the suspension placed on the trading on shares of the Universal Insurance Plc. August 19, 2019 In "Business"