The Dangote tomato processing factory has decried the huge financial loss being brought upon the country by farmers abandoning their tomato farms due to massive rainfalls across the country. Accordingly, the company said it is losing about N30 million every month after tomato farmers abandon their farms recently. Lamenting the development, Managing Director of Dangote Farms, Abdulkareem Kaita, said the company is losing at least N30 million every month that it remains shut. The factory, which is Nigeria’s largest, has the capacity to process 1,200 tonnes of tomato a day. In a report yesterday, Bloomberg quoted Kaita to have stated: “We knew tomato is a seasonal crop before we started as is the case in China and Europe. What we set out to do was reduce the post-harvest loss yearly to feed the factory.” READ ALSO: NNPC not in contest with the forthcoming Dangote refinery – Kyari The farm has already acquired a 5,000-hectare of farmland to cultivate a high-yield variety of tomatoes to supply the factory with raw materials and at the same time introduce the variety to other farms to increase their productivity. “With this, the output of the farmers would tremendously improve and the processing factory would record ample supply,” Kaita said. “The effective implementation of the government’s policy in restricting tomato paste importation will guarantee more investment in the tomato value chain, which will eventually lead to self-sufficiency in few years to come.” VANGUARD The Dangote Tomato Processing Factory in Kadawa, Kura Local Government Area of Kano State is to resume production in February. January 3, 2017 In "Business" The Dangote Tomato Processing Company, Kadawa, Kano State, which suspended operation more than a year ago, is to resume operation within the next two weeks. February 9, 2019 In "News" In December 2015, Mrs Sarah Smith, like most women agonised over the high cost of tomatoes in the market which marred her Christmas shopping due to paucity of funds arising from the economic downturn of the country. March 3, 2016 In "Agric"