The Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, has on Friday asked its members to be focused and law abiding, noting that the group would soon actualise their dream for the sovereign state of Biafra. The group equally hinted that their vision would be achieved without fighting a war. Disclosing this in Calabar in a marked departure from the annual processions and rallies around cities and towns in Cross River and Akwa Ibom States, MASSOB, held seminars to sensitize members of the public on its non violent campaign agitation for a Biafra state. PDP sweeps Presidential, NASS polls in Gov Emmanuel’s LG(Opens in a new browser tab) In Eket and Uyo zones, their leaders, Francis Johnson and Nsijak Akpan organised talk shops at the Eket Main market and multi purpose Town Hall Uyo respectfully to address crowds on the history of the campaign for a Biafran State started by Chief Ralph Iwazurike. ” In his room in Imo State, Chief Uwazurike began this vision to actualise  a Biafra state without firing a gun and  the campaign has continued to gain  momentum and we are confident that very soon we shall have a Biafra state without fighting a war with anyone ” Akpan told the crowd at Uyo. He said though many years have gone by  since the agitation started, it is within view from events in Nigeria that things are falling apart and individuals units seeking to have their  freedom will achieve their desire soon. In Eket , Johnson said killing and destruction of property as was the case during the civil war do not bring about the actualisation of a dream that is the reason for the violence free campaign by MASSOB. We’ve no plans to invade Abia govt House —MASSOB(Opens in a new browser tab) “You cannot kill and destroy the people and land you want to develop so Chief Uwazurike decided on a non confrontational agitation for the actualisation of a Biafra nation where equality will be the watchword”. Vanguard The Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, yesterday, declared 'war' on the Federal Government to press for the unconditional release of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu and other Biafra agitators detained in various prisons nationwide and in diaspora. September 23, 2016 In "News" Biafra Day anniversary celebration turned bloody, yesterday, in South-East states as soldiers and policemen clashed with pro-Biafra groups. May 31, 2016 In "Headlines" AHEAD of today’s sit-at-home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, and other pro-Biafra groups, security operatives have, in the past one week, been engaged in Operation Show-of-Force with a combined force of Military, Naval and Police personnel patrolling the major streets of Umuahia and environs. May 30, 2019 In "News"