President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday returned to Abuja after attending the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74), in New York, United States. The President was initially scheduled to return to Abuja on Sunday morning However, the presidential aircraft carrying the President, his aides and some members of his entourage landed at the presidential wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja, on Saturday morning. Buhari’s decision to return home was because he completed his official engagements in time The President, who left Abuja on September 22 for New York, participated actively in the main and High Side Events of the UNGA74. His first official engagement at the UNGA74 was on Monday where he addressed the UN Climate Action Summit with the theme, “A Race We Can Win. A Race We Must Win.” At the event, Buhari announced robust plans and initiatives by his administration to reverse the negative effects of climate change in Nigeria. While sharing the sentiment expressed by the UN Secretary-General that the world is on the verge of climate catastrophe, President Buhari said ”undeniably, Climate Change is a human-induced phenomenon.” (NAN)  Vanguard  President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja on Sunday for New York, United States, to participate in the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74) which opened on Tuesday, Sept. 17. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on… September 19, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari will on Sunday leave Abuja for New York,  to participate in the 74th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA74) which opened on  September  17. The  Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, Mr. Femi Adesina, said in a statement on Thursday, that President… September 19, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has on Sunday, departed Abuja for New York, United States of America to take part in the 74th Session of United Nations general Assembly. September 22, 2019 In "News"