The leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has urged governors owing salaries to pay, noting that soon those who have not paid salaries would not be allowed to travel abroad. Disclosing this in an interview with ‘BEN TV London’, Kanu said that they (Governors) would not be attacked but would be questioned on the rationale behind their attitude to workers and pensioners. His words, “Very soon, any governor who has not paid salaries will not come abroad anymore. If you are owing salaries you’re not allowed to go abroad anymore. “You bank teachers’ salaries, you bank the salaries of pensioners, you cannot come abroad anymore. So this is just the beginning. We’ll not attack them; we’ll just ask them questions. It is called picketing. It’s allowed within the ambit of democratic rules. DSS receives order permitting El-Zakzaky to travel for medicals(Opens in a new browser tab) “If we see you, we’ll ask you what you’ve been doing with teachers’ salaries, nurses’ salaries and why you’ve not been paying people and what are you doing here? Any governor owing workers once we catch you abroad you’ll tell us what you’ve being doing with the salaries you’re supposed to pay. “It doesn’t matter the state you come from, but once we catch you, you must explain why you’ve not paid for four months, six months and nine months”, he was quoted as saying by TheCable. Vanguard Awka—Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, yesterday, called on the international community to demand from the Nigerian military why it raided the home of its leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, particularly as the Nigerian Defence Minister, General Mansur Dan Ali (retd) had admitted such raid. October 17, 2017 In "News" LEADER of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, yesterday, vowed to resist any plan to Islamise any part of Igbo land. July 19, 2017 In "News" INDIGENOUS Peoples of Biafra, IPOB , has denounced reports circulating on social media that its leader, Nnamdi Kanu was on the run amid moves by the Federal Government to re-arrest him following an alleged violation of his bail conditions. September 5, 2017 In "News"