Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has on Thursday advised the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 23, 2019 presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to accept defeat, noting that President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory is the shortest route for an Igbo Presidency come 2023. The group through its President General, Mazi okechukwu Isiguzoro congratulated the victorious Buhari and asked Atiku to concede and accept defeat even though he has the constitutional rights to appeal the decision of the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, PEPT, at the supreme Court. IPOB to S/east govns: We don’t need your apology; you’ll know how upset we’re if we meet abroad(Opens in a new browser tab) Read parts of the statement sent to Vanguard: “We accept this validation of President Buhari’s mandate as the shortest route to have an Igbo man succeed him as President in 2023. “It’s historic that during the 2003 Presidential campaign when General Muhammadu Buhari was the flag bearer of ANPP with late Senator Chuba Okadigbo, Buhari came to Umuahia during the 2003 ANPP gubernatorial flag off campaign of Chief Enyinnaya Abaribe, and said” I’m destined to be the man that will handover to an Igbo man as President”, 20 years later by 2023, the prophecy is sure to be accomplish. Breaking: Presidential tribunal verdict, a travesty of justice – PDP(Opens in a new browser tab) “President Muhammadu Buhari should give massive projects and empowerment to the South East as a prompt response to some few Igbo detractors who erroneously see him as a tribalistic leader who hates Igbo. “He should reward the South East with projects and we urge Igbo to work towards getting Nigeria President of Igbo stock in 2023 by being less critic of him. “It’s time to genuinely build bridges ahead of 2023.” Vanguard ENUGU- ONE of the President Muhammadu Buhari support group in the South east, the Zikist-Buharist-Movement, ZBM, has stated that there is contradiction the 2023 Nigeria Presidency is the turn of Ndigbo. February 2, 2019 In "News" Former APC Presidential aspirant, Chief Charles Udeogaranya has urged Buhari supporters to stop playing politics with Zik’s name and leave Ohanaeze alone. January 29, 2019 In "Politics" The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, Coalition of Igbo groups and Biafra agitators, Friday, started that the recent appointment of Amina Zakari as the head of 2019 INEC Presidential advisory council and Collection unit will not influence the results of the 2019 presidential election in favour of President Muhammadu… January 6, 2019 In "News"