The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has restated his commitment to developing basketball further in Nigeria.  A statement by Tunde Akpeji, the Special Assistant to the Minister, made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) quoted Dare as saying that the tonic to generate excitement and private investment around basketball has been promoted. Taking a cue from the victory of D’Tigers in China where they picked the Olympics ticket, Dare restated the ministry’s commitment to developing other sports alongside football. He said Nigeria’s resurgence in certain sports, including basketball would be leveraged upon in the build-up to the Olympics. READ ALSO: Nwora invites 15 players for World Cup qualifiers NAN reports that the minister who followed up the D’Tigers on each of their games had placed a call to them moments after they won. In his tweet about the team’s victory, he said “D’Tigers secured Africa’s sole Olympic ticket to Tokyo 2020. “We will strive to keep them together as a team. Football, basketball, Athletics, Boxing, Weightlifting, Table Tennis, Canoeing etc will engage our attention.” NAN also reports that the minister had also called the team before each game to motivate them. Moments after their victory, he conveyed the congratulatory message of President Muhammadu Buhari to the D’Tigers players and coaching staff. (NAN) VANGUARD President Muhammadu Buhari will receive the victorious D’Tigress during Wednesday’s Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting in Abuja, Solomon Dalung, the Minister of Youth and Sports, announced on Tuesday. August 30, 2017 In "News" On August 21, President Muhammadu Buhari unveiled his new cabinet with Sunday Akin Dare as the new Minister of Youth and Sports Development. It is clear that Dare has a myriad of problems he has to grapple with. August 24, 2019 In "News" The factional president of the Nigeria Basketball Federation, Tijjani Umar, has sent a congratulatory message to the officials and players of the national senior women’s basketball team, D’Tigress, for winning the Afrobasket Championship title for the third time at the weekend after earlier victories in 2003 and 2005. August 29, 2017 In "Sports"