Former military leader, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB), on Saturday urged Igbos to ensure that Nigerians continue to feel their positive impact. He said this was due to their tenacity in business enterprises which spans the length and breadth of the country and beyond. Babangida made the remark in Minna, when the Igbo Delegates Assembly (IDA), from the 19 Northern states and Abuja, visited him for his recent 78th birthday. The delegation was led by the IDA president, Chief Chikezie Okezie and the Eze Igbo of Minna, Eze Pampas Wahiwe. “You should continue to allow your positive impacts to be felt among host ethnic nationalities in the country, as you explore business opportunities available. “Nigerians, Igbos inclusive, should ensure they uphold the ideals of Nigeria’s founding fathers. “An indivisible Nigeria is very necessary and we must do everything possible to remain as one family, though we differ in tribe and tongue,” he said. He appreciated the Igbos for being very enterprising and determined to succeed by penetrating the nooks and crannies of the country for business exploits. “You should use the same spirit of enterprise to promote peaceful co-existence among Nigerians, in all that you are doing. “You have done well to keep Nigeria together. The Igbos are known to have the potentials of travelling far and wide, exploring new frontiers and business opportunities,” he said. Okezie prayed to God to continue to grant IBB the strength and wisdom to offer advice that would help Nigeria in tackling its various challenges. “As an elder statesman, your wise counsel is very much needed at this point in our national life,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The 2015 Presidential candidate of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Chief Martin Onovo, has commended ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo’s call for Igbo Presidency in 2019. January 26, 2017 In "News" Former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) (rtd), has urged Nigerians to embrace dialogue in resolving the country’s challenges in order to ensure peace and development. September 30, 2017 In "News" MINNA—Former Military President, General Ibrahim Babangida (retd), has again urged Nigerians to ensure that only the younger generations were voted to power in the country. April 16, 2018 In "News"