There’s hope for obesity sufferers… Many people often struggle to keep their weight in check as they get older. It is now confirmed that you will gain weight as you age even if you don’t eat more or exercise less than before. This is the verdict of a new research at Karolinska Institutet in Sweden that discovered how lipid turnover in the fat tissue decreases during ageing and makes it easier to gain weight. According to the study, published in the journal Nature Medicine, the scientists studied the fat cells in 54 men and women over an average period of 13 years. In that time, all subjects, regardless of whether they gained or lost weight, showed decreases in lipid turnover in the fat tissue, that is the rate at which lipid (or fat) in the fat cells is removed and stored. Those who didn’t compensate for that by eating less calories gained weight by an average of 20 percent, according to the study which was done in collaboration with researchers at Uppsala University in Sweden and University of Lyon in France. The researchers also examined lipid turnover in 41 women who underwent bariatric surgery and how the lipid turnover rate affected their ability to keep the weight off four to seven years after surgery. Forex: I&E window records $29.6bn turnover in H1’19(Opens in a new browser tab) The result showed that only those who had a low rate before the surgery managed to increase their lipid turnover and maintain their weight loss. The researchers believe these people may have had more room to increase their lipid turnover than those who already had a high-level pre-surgery. “The results indicate for the first time that processes in our fat tissue regulate changes in body weight during ageing in a way that is independent of other factors,” says Peter Arner, professor at the Department of Medicine in Huddinge at Karolinska Institutet and one of the study’s main authors. “This could open up new ways to treat obesity.” “Obesity and obesity-related diseases have become a global problem,” says Kirsty Spalding, senior researcher at the Department of Cell and Molecular Biology at Karolinska Institutet and another of the study’s main authors. “Understanding lipid dynamics and what regulates the size of the fat mass in humans has never been more relevant.”  IF you are trying to lose weight, and you sincerely wish to succeed in your weight loss plan, you need to ditch your cell phone. Why? The short answer: Your cell phone is making you fat. July 29, 2013 In "Health" Eat smaller mealsThis simple food-timing trick sends messages to your brain to release fat stores. If you haven’t eaten anything for 2 to 3 hours, it’s time to eat again. Ideally, choose some protein and non-starchy vegetables to get the best results. Some great options include: soaked almonds (soak for… May 16, 2015 In "Health" This simple food-timing trick sends messages to your brain to release fat stores. If you haven’t eaten anything for 2 to 3 hours, it’s time to eat again. Ideally, choose some protein and non-starchy vegetables to get the best results. Some great options include: soaked almonds (soak for eight hours… May 6, 2017 In "Health"