Works and housing minister Babatunde Fashola says that the works and housing sectors were crucial to meeting President Muhammadu Buhari’s `next level’ target of moving one million Nigerians from poverty to prosperity. Fashola, in a statement signed by Mrs Boade Akinola, Director of Press, Ministry of Works and Housing, noted that good infrastructure was the first step to prosperity. The statement was made available to newsmen on Thursday in Abuja. “With good infrastructure, the value of properties increase and owners earn more money,” the statement quoted Fashola as saying when he received 21 members of the Good Governance Ambassadors of Nigeria (GOGAN), South West Zone. It said that the GOGAN members, who were led by the Zonal Coordinator, Alhaja Olabisi Eletu, had visited Fashola to offer some counsel on good governance. Fashola said that GOGAN’s message of Good Governance was in agreement with President Muhammadu Buhari’s determination to provide good governance and quality service to Nigerians. The minister was further quoted as saying that government was addressing the problems of abandoned projects and infrastructural deficit the south-west was facing, with some directors invited to list on-going projects in that zone. “Everything you have asked for is already happening. Government is executing road projects. Government is actually responding to our demands,” Fashola was further quoted as saying. The minister enjoined members of GOGAN to assist the current administration by sensitising Nigerians on the need to respect democracy and rule of law. Earlier, Eletu had said that the association was set up to create awareness on good governance and self-discovery among Nigerians. She said that the visit was to congratulate Fashola over his reappointment and to commend his passion, doggedness and zeal toward achieving set goals. Eletu also announced GOGAN’s decision to make Fashola the Grand Patron of GOGAN. Vanguard A Chieftain of the PDP, Chief Olabode George, on Saturday advised the Minister of Power, Works & Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, to leave the issue of who becomes President in 2023 and focus on improving infrastructure in the country. October 27, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, has urged the creative industry to deploy their talents to project positive values of integrity and dignity which President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration represents. February 10, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, on Thursday, urged the people of South West to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 elections to guarantee a return of power to the region in 2023. October 25, 2018 In "News"