President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has underscored the need to have a budget reform that will include a law on timeliness in budget passing. “We can reform our budget cycle if there is a law on timeliness for budget passing,” Lawan said late Thursday in Abuja. He spoke on “Reforming the Budget Cycle: A First Step in Our Journey to the Next Level” at the “Government Meets Business Dinner” of the Institute of Directors Annual Conference. Senate summons Aregbesola, Dingyadi over poor state of police colleges(Opens in a new browser tab) Lawan said timeliness and deadlines will give leaders focus and make more definite on deliverables. Reports, according to the Senate President, have shown that countries like the United States of America, Canada, Austria, Brazil, France and India have more definite budget cycles through legislation. “We have resolved to be reform minded in the ninth National Assembly and improving the budget cycle is one area of focus. “Our attention will be on the areas where enhancements are needed and we are surely not going to look away from them in the interest of national growth, development and wellbeing of our people,” Lawan said. The Senate President said it is also important to improve on database showing the social economic conditions of the country. He stated that a database would be more helpful for the appreciation of financial projections notwithstanding the current efforts by the National Bureau of Statistics and some multilateral agencies showing the sectoral performances of the economy. The Senate President called for the amendment of the Public Procurement Act 2007 adding that “we are of the firm belief that the Act has not provided the intended efficacy it should produce.” UNILAG crisis: Reps summon Babalakin, V-C, Registrar, others(Opens in a new browser tab) “Related to this is the need to match budget projections with fund release if accountability is to be appreciable. “Proper documentation of financial activities and reduced political Interventions in the budgetary process are additionally important steps to follow. “We should try to reduce frivolous items on the recurrent expenditure list to increase our disposition to produce, ensure judicious expenditure process and to guarantee value-for-money,” Lawan said. Vanguard Lawan By Henry Umoru ABUJA—PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, has reiterated his call on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the 2020 budget was laid before the National Assembly by end of September. Omo-Agege is a principled political leader — Senate President(Opens in a new browser tab) He… August 16, 2019 In "News" The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan said on Friday that the National Assembly is eager to receive the 2020 budget proposals. September 20, 2019 In "News" Victor Ogunyinka The Leader of the Senate and front line candidate for the presidency in the ninth Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, affirmed that as Senate President, he might have to disagree with President Muhammadu Buhari on some issues, "but would find ways of resolving any difference in record time for… April 18, 2019 In "News"