THE Delta State Election Petition Tribunal, sitting in Asaba, has affirmed the election of the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori in the March 9, 2019 election in Okpe State Constituency. Justice S M J Usman who read the tribunal judgment, uphold the election of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Sherrif Oborevwori, adding that he is the true winner of the election as declared by Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC. Usman in his judgement, said that the case brought before it by the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr Akpojaro Harrison Ogaga lacked merit. According to the Judge, the petitioner failed to prove his case beyond every reasonable doubt and therefore struck it out. Reacting to the judgement, Chief Sheriff Oborevwori who represents the Okpe State constituency, said his faith in God never failed him and dedicated his victory to God and his constituents. Speaking with newsmen moments after the judgment, Oborevwori who extended hands of fellowship to his opponents, restated his confidence in the judiciary as the beckon of hope for the common man. He noted that the victory at the election petition tribunal was a true reflection of the wishes of his constituents, adding that the affirmation of his victory at the polls by the tribunal is a call for greater service. The Speaker promised to continue to strive to improve on the well-being of the people of the constituency, thanking the people of Okpe for their continued support and prayers for him and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. Vanguard THE Court of Appeal sitting in Benin, Edo State, has dismissed the appeal by the House of Assembly candidate of Labour Party, Mr Hero Omwirhiren, against the member representing Okpe Local Government constituency in the Delta State House of Assembly, Sheriff Oborevwori. December 9, 2015 In "News" SPEAKER of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Sheriff Oborevwori has described the victory of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at the Governorship election petition tribunal as well deserved, congratulating the Governor on his victory at the tribunal. September 20, 2019 In "News" COUNTDOWN to the 2019 general elections, Special Adviser to the Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief Daniel Iwrighen, yesterday addressed Deltans and Nigerians in the diaspora, canvassing support for the election the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP presidential flagbearer, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa… January 26, 2019 In "News"