Sokoto State Governor, Rt Hon Aminu Tambuwal, has explained that six Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors visited the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, to commend him for his sustained projects delivery. He said the governors urged Wike to continue to deliver quality projects and sustain good governance for the development of Rivers State. Governor Tambuwal also declared that PDP remains strongly united in friendship and brotherhood. He spoke on Friday night at the Government House Port Harcourt after a meeting. The meeting had in attendance: Adamawa State Governor, Umaru Fintiri, Imo State Governor, Emeka Ihedioha Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom Sokoto State Governor, Amimu Tambuwal Zamfara State Governor, Mohammed Mattawale. Tambuwal said: “We are here as brothers and friends  to the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike in the spirit of brotherhood and friendship.  To encourage and support him for the good governance he has given to the good people of Rivers State. “The 100days of the second term of Governor Wike is also why we are here. The spirit in Port Harcourt and Rivers State is that of celebration and thanksgiving and gratitude to God for such a wonderful leadership by Governor Wike. “We are also here to join him and the good people of Rivers State in thanking God for his leadership and to thank God for giving the state a wonderful leader like him”. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP ) is very strongly united”. Vanguard  Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Friday met at the PDP Campaign Office in Port Harcourt, where they discussed key issues ahead of the party's victory during the forthcoming 2019 General elections. December 8, 2018 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that the defection of Sokoto State Governor, Dr Aminu Tambuwal to PDP is a victory for democracy, noting that every right thinking Nigerian should work in unity to salvage the country in 2019. August 1, 2018 In "News" Ahead of the inauguration of the 9th National Assembly slated for Tuesday (11th June), governors elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, are currently meeting in Abuja to put finishing touches on the direction its lawmakers are expected to go in the election. June 10, 2019 In "News"