Nigerian artiste, Wizkid has been announced as the headline act for this year’s BBC Radio 1Xtra Live music event. Wizkid will join the likes of French Montana, Ms Banks, Aitch and DaniLeigh at Arena Birmingham on 5 October. He said he was “looking forward” to the event, adding: “Big up 1Xtra for supporting our culture.” Other acts performing at the event include Headie One, Miraa May, Stylo G, and Lil Tecca. 1Xtra’s DJ Target says: “1Xtra Live is our flagship night where we really get to let our hair down and showcase some of the cream of artists we love and support on the network. “This year we head to Birmingham, a city we’ve always had an amazing relationship with, and we bring another incredible line up with us, including French Montana, who’s gone from strength to strength since we last welcomed him as a surprise in 2017. His full set is going to go off. “Aitch is undoubtedly next up when it comes to UK rap and he’s going to kill it; Ms Banks has had a fierce year too and is brilliant live.” Mark Strippel, 1Xtra’s head of programmes, says Birmingham is a “beacon for rap and grime music in the UK”. “It’s vital that we continue to reflect the scale and growth of the scene on 1Xtra. “With some brilliant surprise acts already lined up to perform, it’s sure to be an unmissable night.” 1Xtra Live will be broadcast live on BBC Radio 1Xtra, BBC Radio 1 and BBC Asian Network from 7pm on 5 October. Vanguard News Nigeria. Nigerian pop singer, Wizkid has declared that he’s Africa’s number one music act. The Star Boy made the declaration on his Instagram page yesterday, after he emerged winner of BET Award for ‘Best International Act: Africa’ in Los Angeles, California. June 27, 2017 In "Entertainment" The Nigerian music scene has seen its share of rivalry, down the ages, till now. From Barrister Vs Kollington; Obesere Vs KWAM 1; Onyeka Onwenu Vs Christy Essien Igbokwe; Sunny Okosun Vs Fela Anikulapo-Kuti; and now, Nigeria’s two leading pop stars; Davido and Wizkid having been going at each other’s… July 9, 2017 In "Music" The ongoing feud between blogger, Linda Ikeji and talented singer, Ayo Balogun, a.k.a Wizkid took another twist, Sunday, after Linda confirmed that she had reported the public threat issued against her by Wizkid to the Nigerian Police. April 17, 2016 In "News"