The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Port Harcourt’s Zonal Office, has commenced the investigation of 58 suspected oil thieves; four Vessels, one Barge and two wooden boats allegedly involved in illegal oil bunkering.  The suspects and Vessels were handed over to the EFCC by the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Pathfinder for further investigation and possible prosecution. The suspects are: Daniel Faviel Flores, a Mexican; Khrstoliubov Victor, an Ukranian and 56 Nigerian suspects: Umoh Emmanuel Etim; Aliu Dominic; Okwong Effiong Ukpong; Talick Uche Epuk; Okon Emmanuel Sunday; Ebenezer Marshal; Awuletey Okon; George Obomate; Johnbull Uroro; Alphonomsus Augustine Ufot; Jerome Adele-ekun; Mathew Jacob; Okoye Kachi Fred; Johnwill Austin Omubo; Utibe Peter George; Dickson Amadi; Uzi Chibueze Benard; Israel Essien; Job Wilfred; Emmanuel Joseph Ohwimu; Chinedu Nwachukwu Opara; Pascal Chinedu Nnaji; Okechukwu Chukwueke; Peter Ogar; Olatunji Julius Adedokun; Alabede Maruf Olakunle and Origbo Tekevwe Godwill. Others are: Evakpo David; Mbachu Kelvin Okechukwu; Nebeire Onyekachi Philip; Akanbi Oluwaseun Moses; Wonodi Chisom Wisdom; Prince Austine Anyor; Anjorin Rasheed Babatunde and Iffi Francis Chuka, ALSO READ: Free HIV services: Akwa Ibom threatens to punish health workers who charge for treatment The rest are: Tom Wisdom Udo; Fasina Isaac Kehinde; Edo Nsongurua; Cookey Fubara; Ayoka Joseph; Benson Nwaya; Akinfenwa Mike; Ahmed A Shehu; Okojie Favour Osahon: John Flash; Edward Modunwa; Eyione Alex; Onyeneke Wisdom Udoka; Nwokeke Wisdom Udoka; Nwokeke Michael S.U; Anyasi Joshua Ikechukwu; Edward Atorkemo Harrison; Ekpeno Benjamin; Rafi Nura Sani, Thompson Deezua and Edwin Ekpoto Omaretshogunwa. It was alleged that the suspects were on board the Vessels when they were intercepted at different dates and locations in Port Harcourt, Rivers State for alleged illegal oil bunkering activities. The Vessels: MV Western Orient; MV Temile, AHT Ajemisan and AHT Jascon 23 together with two wooden Boats were intercepted around Onne Anchorage while Barge Hannamarine was intercepted at Okorochiri Creek in Okrika, all in Rivers State. Taking over the suspects and the accompanying Vessels, Barge and wooden Boats, Samuel Umezuirike of the EFCC assured the Nigerian Navy of further investigation and possible prosecution. Vanguard. PORT HARCOURT - THE Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, under its Port Harcourt Zone, says it has recovered N1Billion from a Nigerian Ponzi scheme fraudster targeting unsuspecting Nigeria. September 3, 2019 In "News" No fewer than 57 sailors have been arrested in Rivers by the Nigerian Navy for allegedly smuggling crude oil and illegally refining diesel. August 30, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Navy, yesterday, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, handed over 12 suspected oil thieves and 161,280 litres of suspected stolen diesel to the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, NSCDC. December 9, 2014 In "News"