RB Leipzig came from a goal down to snatch a 1-1 draw against champions Bayern Munich on Saturday to remain top of the Bundesliga, a point ahead of second-placed Borussia Dortmund. Bayern Munich, who host Red Star Belgrade in their UEFA Champions League group opener next week, got off to a perfect start when Robert
Lewandowski was sent through by Thomas Mueller. The Pole struck in the third minute for his seventh goal of the campaign. Yet in spite of having more than 75 per cent possession in the first half, the Bavarians failed to make their dominance count. They were punished when Lucas Hernandez, playing as a full-back after David Alaba was injured in the warm-up, brought down Yussuf Poulsen. Emil Forsberg’s well-taken penalty kick beat Manuel Neuer and drew the hosts level on the stroke of half-time. “We played a sensational first half and it was our best performance so far,” Bayern Munich coach Niko Kovac told reporters. “We kept them away, but we should have gotten more out of our superiority.” Leipzig shot out of the blocks after the break and it was their turn to set the pace with Bayern Munich goalkeeper Neuer repeatedly coming to the rescue. Bayern Munich eventually found a way back into the game as their opponents ran out of steam. Kingsley Coman’s deflected effort in the 77th was tipped onto the crossbar by Leipzig’s Peter Gulasci. The Hungary goalkeeper also got his fingers onto the ball to turn a Niklas Suele header in stoppage time onto the post. “The second half was an open game. But at the end of the day the result is frustrating,” Kovac said. “We had more chances, played well but have two points less than we had planned.” Leipzig, who face Benfica in the UEFA Champions League, are on 10 points, with Borussia Dortmund, who crushed Bayer Leverkusen 4-0, on nine. Bayern Munich are a further point behind in third. NAN. Vanguard. James Rodriguez and Robert Lewandowski scored as Bayern Munich went top of the Bundesliga table on Saturday with a 2-0 home win against RB Leipzig, who played most of the game with 10 men. October 28, 2017 In "News" Defending champions Bayern Munich crashed to a shock 3-1 defeat at Bayer Leverkusen on Saturday, allowing Borussia Dortmund to extend their lead at the top of the Bundesliga table to seven points. February 2, 2019 In "News" Thiago Alcantara's second-half equaliser rescued Bayern Munich in Saturday's 2-2 draw at home to Mainz as the runaway Bundesliga leaders twice came from behind. April 22, 2017 In "Sports"