 The National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA as part of its effort to provide temporary relief to the victims, distribute relief materials to about 2,200 flood victims in Daura Local Government Area of Katsina State. About 3,500 households had been affected by flood due to a recent heavy downpour which lasted for about 14 consecutive hours, as reported by NAN. Alhaji Aminu Nadari, Chairman of the local relief distribution committee told the said in Daura on Tuesday, that all the affected victims had been provided with relief materials which included bags of rice, beans, maize, blankets, mattresses, cooking oil, roofing sheets, ceiling, and rubber mats. He added that the level and degree of damaged suffered by an individual victim determined the number of relief materials that NEMA will provide. “We are meticulous in the entire process as no one is left out.’’ Nadari noted that the remaining 800 victims would be covered when the committee receives the remaining two trucks of the relief materials, expected to arrive “any moment from now.” He called on the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the materials and warned that the agency would not condone any act of sabotage. Hajiya Halima Shehu, a beneficiary who lost three rooms to the flood, commended NEMA for the gesture and lauded the committee for being fair and just in the distribution process. NEMA delivered 300 bags of rice, beans, maize, 1,200 bags of cement, 500 bundles of roofing sheets and 100 packets of nails. Other materials were 500 rubber mats, 750 ceiling sheets, 500 each of blankets and mattresses, as well as 100 jerry can of vegetable oil. No fewer than 2,200 flood victims in Daura Local Government Area of Katsina State have received relief materials from the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) as part of its effort to provide temporary relief to the victims. September 11, 2019 In "News" The Presidency on Sunday described as false and untrue that President Muhammadu Buhari turned his back on Daura community in Katsina State, which was hit by massive floods on Aug.29. September 1, 2019 In "News" No fewer than 53 people have died in 11 states, following flood disasters that displaced more than 100,420 persons this year. September 21, 2015 In "News"