DESPITE the Federal Government withdrawal from participating in the World Economic Forum, WEF, taking place in Cape Town, South Africa as a result of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians, some governors and members of the business class still went ahead to attend. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama had on Wednesday told State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, that the President after meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo decided to withdraw from participating. However, it was reliably gathered that the governors of Ekiti and Kaduna as well as some members of the business class from Nigeria are attending the ongoing forum. Yoruba group pledges to work toward peaceful coexistence among ethnic groups(Opens in a new browser tab) Fielding question from journalists on whether the participation of some Nigerians including the governors was not an affront on the position of the Federal Government, the Minister of Foreign Affairs explained that the governors may have arrived South Africa before the decision was taken. Besides, he said that the WEF was not a South African event, rather a global forum but taking place in South Africa. He said, “The World Economic Forum process has started a number of days ago and the governors who are there had gone there ahead even before this whole issue materialized, they were already engaged in that. ” The first thing you have to realize is that the World Economic Forum is not a South African government initiative. It is a Swiss based mechanism and it takes place in different places. Xenophobic attacks: Telecom, MTN workers beg Nigerians against reprisal attacks(Opens in a new browser tab) ” It is not a question of disobedience because they were actually there already before this decision was taken.” Details later… Vanguard DESPITE the Federal Government withdrawal from participating in the World Economic Forum, WEF, taking place in Cape Town, South Africa as a result of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians, some governors and members of the business class still went ahead to attend. September 5, 2019 In "News" Members of both chambers of the National Assembly are piqued at the xenophobic attacks against Nigerians living in South Africa and have threatened reprisals, if the attacks continued. March 1, 2017 In "Headlines" THE Federal Government on Wednesday stated that South Africa has crossed the red lines in the recent xenophobic attacks on Nigerians living in South Africa. September 4, 2019 In "News"