United Kingdom Prime Minister, Boris Johnson has insisted he “deplores any threats to anybody, particularly female MPs”, after he described one MP’s safety concerns as “humbug”. The PM also said that “tempers need to come down” in Parliament. It follows a stormy debate as MPs returned to Parliament after a Supreme Court decision that the suspension of Parliament was unlawful, according to BBC report. Mr Johnson defended his description of a law seeking to block a no-deal Brexit as “the surrender bill”. The law, known as the Benn bill, forces the government to ask for an extension to the Brexit deadline. During a number of interviews with BBC political editors, the PM argued it would “take away the power of the government… to decide how long it would remain in the EU”. Speaking to the BBC political editor for the North West of England, Nina Warhurst, the prime minister said: “I totally deplore any threats to anybody, particularly female MPs, and a lot of work is being done to stop that and give people the security that they need. “But I do think in the House of Commons it is important I should be able to talk about the surrender bill, the surrender act, in the way that I did.” He argued the law would “take away the power of this government, and the power of this country to decide how long it would remain in the EU and give that power to the EU and that’s really quite an extraordinary thing”. Vanguard News Nigeria. Jeremy Corbyn urged anti-Boris Johnson MPs to make him Britain's caretaker prime minister to avoid a no-deal Brexit -- but his proposal met with a mixed response on Thursday. The Labour main opposition leader said once in power, he would seek to delay Britain's October 31 exit date from the… August 15, 2019 In "Foreign" THE process of suspension of parliament can only be described as a coup, albeit one without the use of tanks and guns, the entire matter was pre-planned and unconstitutional. August 30, 2019 In "News" United Kingdom Prime Minister, Boris Johnson's decision to suspend Parliament was unlawful, the Supreme Court has ruled. Mr Johnson suspended or prorogued Parliament for five weeks earlier this month, but judges said it was wrong to stop MPs carrying out duties in the run-up to Brexit on 31 October. Supreme… September 24, 2019 In "Foreign"