United States President Donald Trump said on Sunday he authorised the release of oil from the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) if needed in a quantity to be determined because of Saturday’s attack on Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities, Reuters reported. “Based on the attack on Saudi Arabia, which may have an impact on oil prices, I have authorised the release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, if needed, in a to-be-determined amount sufficient to keep the markets well-supplied,” Trump said on Twitter.  Blaming the attack on Iran, Trump said; “Saudi Arabia oil supply was attacked. There is reason to believe that we know the culprit, are locked and loaded depending on verification, “But are waiting to hear from the Kingdom as to who they believe was the cause of this attack, and under what terms we would proceed!”  “I have also informed all appropriate agencies to expedite approvals of the oil pipelines currently in the permitting process in Texas and various other States.” Vanguard News. Oil prices surged more than 15% to their highest level in nearly four months at the open on Sunday after an attack on Saudi Arabia’s oil facilities on Saturday that knocked out more than 5% of global oil supply. Brent crude futures jumped more than 19% to a session high… September 16, 2019 In "Business" Saudi de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman told United States (US) president, Donald Trump by telephone that Riyadh had the will and capability "to confront and deal with this terrorist aggression," according to Saudi state news agency SPA. The United States condemned the attacks and Trump told the… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign" Iran has dismissed US accusations that it was responsible for a series of explosive drone attacks on the world’s largest petroleum processing facility in Saudi Arabia that disrupted more than half of the kingdom’s oil output and could affect global supplies. Yemen’s Iran-aligned Houthi rebel group claimed responsibility for launching… September 15, 2019 In "Foreign"