ONE of the leading PDP governorship aspirants, Architect Reuben Okoya, has tasked the party on the need to conduct transparent primaries and being fair to all the aspirants. Okoya, who stated this when he featured at the Correspondents’ Media Forum for Governorship Aspirants in Yenagoa, urged the delegates and party stakeholders to look critically at all the aspirants, vote without emotions and choose the best for the party.  He said for the party to win the November 16 Governorship poll in the state, the party must select the best, adding that the electorates are becoming knowledgeable and bold to vote for the best candidate. Why Amaechi’s comments on Rivers APC often generates heat -Stakeholders(Opens in a new browser tab) Okoya said: “I want the delegates and the party elders and stakeholders to be bold and select somebody who will represent Bayelsa State as governor without emotions because we are at crossroads and we need to do the right thing. “The party must ensure that the primaries are transparent, free and fair and that everybody is treated equally. PDP should ensure that the primaries are rancour free so that the candidate that emerges will be one that the delegates and stakeholders have voted for. I am praying and hoping that the primaries follows the same path like the Port Harcourt Presidential Convention and every aspirant will fall in line once the primary is free and fair. “It is my hope that I emerge the candidate and face the other side (APC). It is very critical that PDP brings forth the best because if we don’t we stand the risk of losing the November 16 governorship election.” AHEAD of tomorrow and next tomorrow’s governorship primary election of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Bayelsa State, the choice of a candidate has been narrowed to three aspirants, Vanguard has gathered. September 1, 2019 In "News" Given the pedigree of aspirants jostling for the party's ticket, some concerned party chieftains are of the view that as they approach the primaries, the PDP, without sentiments, should look inward and carefully support an aspirant that is sellable and can win the election convincingly. July 10, 2019 In "News" INTENSE battle for the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governors hip ticket is afoot in Bayelsa State. The party’s governorship primaries will be held on September 3 2019 ahead of the November 16 governorship poll to elect Governor Seriake Dickson’s successor. Dickson often referred to as the “Valentine Governor” will… July 8, 2019 In "News"