Ijaw Leaders Consultative Forum, ICLF, in Bayelsa State has concluded arrangement to stage a two- million-man open-air rally in Yenagoa in support of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP standard-bearer in the November 16 governorship election, Senator Douye Diri A leader of the group, Mr. Hendrick Opukeme, said, As part of our collective support, endorsement, and solidarity, the Ijaw Leaders Consultative Forum  is billed to stage a two- million- man open-air rally in Yenegoa in the next couple of weeks.” “The rally would draw participants from the youths, women, organized labor, civil society, ethnic nationality platforms, faith-based organizations, community- based groups, student union governments, market associations, academia, and professional associations,” the group stated. Congratulating the candidate on his victory at the just concluded primary, Opukeme said, “The emergence of Douye Diri could not have come at a more appropriate time than now considering the fact that there was actually anxiety and trepidation from well-meaning  Ijaw as to who succeeds  His Excellency, Governor Seriake Dickson.” “Especially a candidate that will not only consolidate on the achievements of the Restoration administration but understands the cause and salient issues confronting the Ijaw nation within the context of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” he said. His words, “I, therefore, commend His Excellency for the clarity of purpose, direction, and commitment which characterized the political process that culminated in the emergence Senator Douye Diri.” “We commend Bayelsa PDP for the conduct of credible and transparent primaries and we urge all shades of opinion who participated in the primaries to close rank and vote massively for Senator Douye Diri. “The development challenges confronting the Ijaw nation and the calling of a governor cannot be entrusted in the hands of a local community pipeline contractor as the APC intends. “Consequently, the good people of Bayelsa State are therefore enjoined to rally behind Senator Douye Diri, who is versatile and prepared for governance in all ramifications,” he added.  Vanguard News By Samuel Oyadongha, Yenegoa The candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, (PDP) in Bayelsa State for the November 16, governorship election, Senator Douye Diri, has again called for unity among members of the party to achieve victory at the poll. He particularly urged all those who contested the PDP primaries… September 19, 2019 In "News" STAKEHOLDERS and former ward chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Bayelsa State have condemned verbal attacks on the Senator representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District, Mr Lawrence Ewrujakpo following his earlier choice by Governor Seriake Dickson as the running mate to the party’s candidate, Senator Douye Diri. September 16, 2019 In "News" IT is less than three months to the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa State. With the conclusion of the primaries of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and All Progressives Congress, APC, political gladiators in the major parties are set for an epic battle for the control the state. September 6, 2019 In "News"