Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State has explained that he congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari after the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal confirmed his election because it is better to offer public congratulations than visit the President at night. Wike saidunlike some governors of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, who visit President Buhari at night,  he made his declaration public  because  it came from the heart. He spoke at the funeral service in honour of late Madam Blessing Awuse,  mother of Onha Sergent Chidi Awuse,  at the St Luke’s Anglican Church,  Emohua, yesterday. Former lawmaker warns FG against accepting bailouts from multinational organisations(Opens in a new browser tab) He said: “ I am sure all of you are surprised that I congratulated Buhari. Is it not good for me to congratulate him than to go to his house in the night?  So many PDP governors go to see him in his house in the night. I have never gone and I will not go. “We are  the only state that the Federal Government refused to pay us our money used to execute  federal  projects because I don’t go to see him in the night and I won’t go. He is not my friend, he is not doing well, but he won in court, should I say that the court did wrong? No. “President Buhari, congratulations and carry Nigerians along. Unify the country, the country is too divided. I am saying what is right. What I will do, I will do, what I will not do, I will not do. “Politics is a game of interest. And my only interest is Rivers State. Anything that is against the interest of Rivers State,  I will  not agree.  These people sold us out, thinking that they are doing Wike.  It is the state that you are offending,  because I am just one person.” Wike expressed displeasure that Rivers State had key links to President Buhari from the state, yet the East West  Road, the seaports and other federal projects had been completely neglected since 2015. “We produce oil. They should not punish Rivers State because of me. I am just one individual.  We have not benefited anything from the Federal Government.” The only thing we have benefited is the abuse they heap on me. “They turned the NDDC  into a cash cow to sponsor elections against us. Nobody protested that anomaly.  Now they want us to protest because someone did not nominate the management of NDDC this time. “Since 2015, NDDC has not had its governing board, but nobody protested.  I will not be dragged into such protests,” he said.    Will the ongoing feud between former governor of Rivers state, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi and his once trusted ally and incumbent governor of the state, Nyesom Wike ever come to an end? May 11, 2019 In "News" Chief Ugochukwu Nnam, President, Initiative for Leadership Development and Change (ILDC), on Wednesday said that early lead of Governor Nyesom Wike of PDP was a demonstration of President Muhammadu Buhari’s belief in the tenets of democracy. April 3, 2019 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that the major challenges that characterised the 2019 General Elections would have been averted if President Muhammadu Buhari had assented to the amended Electoral Act. June 11, 2019 In "News"