World Health Organization, WHO, has said it welcomes efforts by social networking website, Facebook, which aims at combating vaccine misinformation on the internet. Facebook on Wednesday rolled out a new feature that ensures that users on its platforms seeking out information and advice will only find facts about vaccines from WHO. However, in a reaction statement on Thursday, WHO’s Director-General, Dr. Tedros Ghebreyesus, stated that getting accurate information about vaccines has become imperative in the information age; adding that misinformation regarding vaccines can reverse the progress made by countries in disease prevention overtime. Umahi orders social media platform in govt name closed(Opens in a new browser tab) He said, “The World Health Organization and Facebook have been in discussions for several months to ensure people can access authoritative information on vaccines and reduce the spread of inaccuracies. “Major digital organizations have a responsibility to their users — to ensure that they can access facts about vaccines and health. It would be great to see social and search platforms come together to leverage their combined reach. We want digital actors doing more to make it known around the world that vaccines work. We want innovation that supports healthy behaviours to save lives and protect the vulnerable.” He, however, said these online efforts must be matched by tangible steps by governments and the health sector to promote trust in vaccination and respond to the needs and concerns of the people. Vanguard  In view of growing outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases,the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) says it will inaugurate a new global campaign from April 24 to 30. April 18, 2019 In "News" With only 57.2 percent immunisation coverage in Nigeria, United Nations Children’s Fund UNICEF will next week launch a new global campaign to emphasise the power and safety of vaccines among parents and wider social media users. April 23, 2019 In "Health" A coalition of over 40 Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), that work to ensure equitable access to vaccines in Nigeria, has commended the 8th Senate for its resolution, which called for meningitis vaccination to be made free in public healthcare facilities across the country. April 5, 2017 In "News"