Flag Officer Commanding, FOC, Naval Training Command, Rear Admiral  Stanford Enoch spoke at the graduation ceremony of 35 Officers from the Marine and Weapon Engineering school of the Nigerian Naval Engineering  College, NNEC, Sapele, Delta state. Represented by the Chief Staff Officer Naval Training Command, Rear Admiral Idowu Yusuf, the FOC said the Navy will  always  build capacity in a technical training  “You may find yourself being called upon at any time to serve beyond your technical capacity due to the prevailing situation in the country. Remember also that today’s battlefield is evolving, hence you are expected to make yourselves relevant in new technology and innovations being developed to address today’s emerging threats,” he said.  “Having come this far, you will now be entrusted with the responsibility of bringing what you have learned to bear in the field. It is expected that you will continue to put your best in a manner that reflects the huge investments in training you”, he added.  Earlier in his welcome address, Commandant NNEC, Commodore Samuel Yahaya congratulated the graduands, saying they should deploy their knowledge to the good of the nation. Sub Lieutenant Oluwatobi Alawoki bagged an award as the overall best graduating students.  Vanguard News The Nigerian Navy, yesterday, effected a major shake-up in its hierarchy with the redeployment of nine Rear Admirals, eight Navy Commodores and appointment of new Flag Officers Commanding, FOCs. March 16, 2011 In "News" THE Flag Officer Commanding Naval Training Command, Rear Admiral Adeyinka Akinwale, has charged graduating Officers Application Course 10 and Special Duty Post Commissioning Training Course 5, of Nigerian Naval Engineering College, Ogorode-Sapele, Delta State, to be good ambassadors of the college. May 31, 2011 In "News" The Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas, yesterday, effected the redeployment of 61 senior officers of flag ranks, even as he appointed new Flag Officers Commanding Naval Autonomous Com-mands and branch chiefs. September 10, 2015 In "News"