Nigerian-born, South Africa based singer, Kene Stanley Obiakanwa also known as Mr Rise, has announced to his fans and well-wishers that he is safe and in Nigeria and was not affected by the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians currently sweeping through South Africa. “With gratitude to God, it is a thing of Joy to announce to my fans and well-wishers that I am safe and in Nigeria. I was not affected by the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians currently sweeping through the Republic of South Africa,” he said. The Anambra State-born artiste who recently dropped his new single titled, ‘Naughty’ has been in Nigeria since a couple of weeks, promoting his new single before the outbreak of the xenophobic attacks. READ ALSO: Our zerophobia worse than xenophobia A graduate of Mass Communication from the Federal Polytechnic, Oko, he started his music career about a decade ago as a rapper and songwriter in Lagos, before moving down to Victoria in South Africa. Mr. Rise who is currently promoting his new single ‘Naughty’, featuring Lagos-based artiste ‘9kins’, has embarked on his club tour across the country and will be in many cities soon. VANGUARD When videos of fresh attacks, looting, burning of foreigners, businesses and properties belonging to foreigners, (including Nigerians) went viral on social media on Sunday, controversial Dubai-based billionaire Nigerian, Ray Hushpuppi, expressed anger at Nigerian celebrities for failing to exploit their celebrity status in nipping the incessant attacks on Nigerians in… September 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" Former Presidential Aspirant and Convener of YesWeFit Revolutionary Movement, Dr. Thomas-Wilson Ikubese, has condemned the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. September 4, 2019 In "News" Nigeria’s Consul General in South Africa, Amb. Uche Ajulu-Okeke, confirmed the incident, saying the mission had commenced investigations. ‘’ The Nigerian Consulate in South Africa has received report of new xenophobic attacks in Northern Cape Province of South Africa. ‘’ The mission has commenced investigation into the incident and will… June 17, 2015 In "News"