The Senior Pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, Biodun Fatoyinbo, has left many guessing with his recent Instagram picture quotes and captions. Some believed the post is not unconnected with the recent interviews of two Ilorin pastors – Busola Olotu and Rev Emmanuel Oset – who used to be Fatoyinbo’s spiritual father. The two pastors claimed they knew Fatoyinbo when he began his ministry in Ilorin, Kwara State capital years ago. Recall Vanguard reported that Rev Oset, Presiding pastor of Champions’ Church, Ilorin opened up on why he ‘disowned’ his one-time spiritual son,  Fatoyinbo, some five years ago. Fatoyinbo first post on Instagram assumed to be a subtle response, said: “Do not be bothered if those who you have been a huge blessing to turn against you because of ingratitude, envy, and Jealousy. Don’t even think about it for a second, don’t let who they are change who you are!”    Do not be bothered if those who you have been a huge blessing to turn against you because of ingratitude, envy and Jealousy. Don’t even think about it for a second, don’t let who they are change who you are! #PB #Biodunfatoyinbo #cozaglobal . A post shared by  Biodun Fatoyinbo (@biodunfatoyinbo) on Sep 27, 2019 at 2:44am PDT  Another picture post ascribed to Genereux Philip reads, “People only throw shades at what is shining”.   But when you face light you don’t see shadows. Focus on Jesus . #KeepShining #LovelyDay #biodunfatoyinbo A post shared by  Biodun Fatoyinbo (@biodunfatoyinbo) on Sep 28, 2019 at 12:11am PDT  He also posted another picture quote with a parable caption. “I keep my head held high and smile, because there are people who will kill to see me fall.”    And when it was day, some of the Jews banded together and bound themselves under an oath, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul. Now there were more than forty who had formed this conspiracy. They came to the chief priests and elders, and said, “We have bound ourselves under a great oath that we will eat nothing until we have killed Paul. Acts 23 : 12-14 BE WISE! “Kole Werk” A post shared by  Biodun Fatoyinbo (@biodunfatoyinbo) on Sep 28, 2019 at 2:44am PDT  Emmanuel Oset, Presiding pastor of Champions’ Church, Ilorin has opened up on why he ‘disowned’ one-time spiritual son, Biodun Fatoyinbo, Presiding Pastor of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA) some five years ago. Pastor Oset narrated how he tried to get Fatoyinbo’s reaction when a similar rape case to Busola Dakolo’s… September 27, 2019 In "News" The internet was awash yesterday  after Busola Dakolo, the wife of popular singer, Timi Dakolo, opened up on how she survived the trauma of an alleged rape ordeal she said she suffered in the hands of the founder of The Commonwealth of Zion Assembly, COZA, Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo. June 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" When the news broke that the General Overseer of Commonwealth of Zion Assembly (COZA), Pastor Biodun Fatoyinbo, allegedly raped Timi Dakolo’s wife, Busola Dakolo, 20-years ago, it sparked off deep empathy from a number of Nigerian celebrities including Davido, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Banky W, Kemi Adetiba, Kemi Olunloyo, Stella Damasus,… July 3, 2019 In "Entertainment"