A former Works Commissioner in Rivers State  and current member representing Khana/Gokhana Federal Constituency Mr. Dumnamene Dekor, has dismissed the claim that the Governor Nyesom Wike demolished a mosque in Rainbow Town  to pave the way for a housing estate. Dekor, in a statement, made it clear that to the best of his knowledge as Works Commissioner, no mosque ever existed on the land in question. The federal lawmaker, who accused the enemies of Wike of  trying to stoke  embers of religious crisis in the state using the mosque as a launching pad, explained that, as a commissioner who handled all works and land matters in the state for many years, there was no record to prove that any mosque ever existed on the said land. Many injured as hoodlums attack Ogun community, order residents to vacate(Opens in a new browser tab) He wondered why critics  continue to accuse the governor on  a matter which predated Wike, having been resolved by a subsisting court judgment in Suit Number PHC/986/2012 between Registered Trustees of Trans Amadi Mosque, Port Harcourt (claimant) versus the Commissioner, Ministry of Urban Development and Physical Planning, Rivers State, the Governor of Rivers State and the Attorney General of Rivers State (defendants). Dekor affirmed that the court in that judgment ruled that the claimants had no approval to build on the disputed land. He recalled that  anti-Wike elements  had in their statements affirmed that under former Governor Rotimi Amaechi, the said ‘mosque’ had suffered two demolitions. “To every rational thinker, one again wonders why there was no hue and cry against Amaechi. Why all the noise against Wike? It clearly shows that there is more to all these than meets the eye,” he said. Dekor, who is also  one-time Deputy Speaker in State House of Assembly, noted that the mosque demolition drama  could be likened to the biblical story of two women who appeared before Solomon contending for the ownership of a baby, adding that while the culprit suggested the cutting of the baby into two equal parts, the mother of the baby declined, reasoning that when the baby grows up, it would know its mother. Waive to NPDC: Begin remediation work on ruptured Abura Crude pipeline(Opens in a new browser tab) “These enemies of the state are fanning the embers of hate against Governor Wike, rooting to burn down the state just because they no longer have any stake in Rivers for the simple reason that they have long been rejected by the people,” Dekor said. Vanguard MEMBER representing Khana/Gokana federal constituency, in the House of Representatives, Dumnamene Dekor, yesterday, condemned the attacks on Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State over the demolition of a non-existent mosque in Port Harcourt. September 4, 2019 In "News" Chairman, Rivers State Chapter of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Mr. Felix Obuah, has called on the people of Ogoni to reciprocate the good gesture of Governor Nyesom Wike in the appointment of their sons and daughters into key positions and the execution of several development projects in the area with… January 17, 2018 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has berated Rivers APC leaders for failing to attract any tangible project to the state since 2015. March 3, 2018 In "News"