Nigerian game lovers should be warming up for a new experience of one of the most popular games. Activision announced today that Call of Duty: Mobile will be released on Android and iOS devices on October 1st. The game, developed by Tencent’s Timi Studio, will be free-to-play and be available in all countries that Google Play and the App Store are supported, Engadget reported. The game will combine elements from other titles in the franchise, like Black Ops and Modern Warfare. “We are delivering the definitive, first-person action experience on mobile with signature Call of Duty gameplay in the palms of your hands,” said Chris Plummer, VP, Mobile at Activision, in a statement. “We are bringing together some of the best the franchise has to offer, including Modern Warfare maps like Crash and Crossfire, Black Ops maps like Nuketown and Hijacked, and many more, into one epic title.” The mobile game also includes a special Battle Royale mode that supports up to 100 players on a huge, entirely new open map. The Engadget reported noted that you can play in either solo, duo or quad-player competitions across land, sea and air with vehicles including an ATV, helicopter and raft. You can choose between first or third-person and pick one of six classes. The mobile game will be a likely relief for Call of Duty fans, after a sudden change in this year’s release schedule led to doubts that a free game would happen at all. Players nostalgic for the classic Call of Duty elements will appreciate older modes like Team Deathmatch, Search and Destroy and Free-For-All. And fans of mobile games who are unfamiliar with the cherished franchise now have a free opportunity to experiment. Vanguard News Nigeria. Frontline mobile phone makers, Nokia, at the weekend announced that it was targeting to use the next few years to connect the next one billion people that are yet to be connected to mobile communications. August 31, 2011 In "Mobile Week with GSM" President GoodLuck Jonathan has urged the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) to ensure effective implementation of policies that will complement Federal Government’s transformation agenda. September 23, 2014 In "Business" FEMI Olanrewaju is an early adopter. He was one of the first Nigerians to buy a mobile phone when the revolution in the telecoms sector began in 2001. Olanrewaju was not a tech addict. Rather, he was one who always sought products and services that would make his life easier… February 27, 2015 In "GlamTeK"