Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa, CGGEJA has urged the Federal Republic of Nigeria to investigate Nigerian Commission in South Africa over allegation of failure to provide shelter and protection to Nigeria citizens who sought refuge during the chaos and bloodletting. The Coalition Country Director, Mr John Mayaki called on South Africa law enforcement authorities to commenced immediate operations to uncover the identity of perpetrators responsible for the despicable tragedy and bring them to task with the full force of the law. “The Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa condemns, in the strongest terms possible, the horrific xenophobic attacks carried out by some South Africans against Nigerians and other foreign nationals living in the country. Omo-Agege, Nnamani, decry attacks on Nigerians(Opens in a new browser tab) “This contemptible act which, not for the first time, was aimed at destroying the livelihood of innocent people on the mere basis of their citizenship, is another crime too far and emblematic of other underlying problems particularly poor education and insecurity. “The enduring misguided belief that Nigerians who migrated to the country for economic or educational purposes, like other citizens across the globe, are responsible for the woes of South Africa is not only ignorant but dangerous. “We demand that the law enforcement authorities in South Africa immediately commence operations to uncover the identity of the perpetrators responsible for the despicable tragedy and bring them to task with the full force of the law. “Furthermore, we demand a probe into the allegations that the Nigerian Commission in South Africa failed to provide shelter and protection to citizens who sought refuge in it during the chaos and bloodletting. Mayaki tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to escalate diplomatic talks with the South African government with a view to enforcing the punishment of everyone who participated and abetted the crime against Nigerians and obtaining clear assurances that the state agencies are not complicit, as some images portrayed, and are committed that this will never happen again. “There are no justifications for the vicious crime and we hope that South Africans will embark on a somber soul-searching on how it can unleash such terror on fellow Africans, especially Nigerians who endured numerous personal sacrifices in the fight against Apartheid and securing freedom of the majority of South Africans from white minority rule. EXCLUSIVE: Tanzanians selling drugs to us not Nigerians ― South African testifies (VIDEOS)(Opens in a new browser tab) “We understand that at this moment of confusion, uncertainty, and charged emotions, we are given to anger and other extreme feelings. We however appeal to the public to exercise caution and channel our grievances to the law enforcement agencies who are backed by law to investigate the crimes and punish offenders, as opposed to embarking on reprisal attacks and spreading violence. “Our hearts and prayers are with the victims of the attacks and their families. We pray to God to give strength to all who have suffered losses during this catastrophe.” Vanguard Angry Nigerians, yesterday, stormed the South African High Commission in Abuja, threatening to shut down South African companies in Nigeria over xenophobic attacks against foreigners in South Africa, including Nigerians. April 21, 2015 In "Headlines" The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has called on the Federal Government to sanction the Republic of South Africa for Xenophobic attacks against Nigerians residing and working there. February 26, 2017 In "News" When videos of fresh attacks, looting, burning of foreigners, businesses and properties belonging to foreigners, (including Nigerians) went viral on social media on Sunday, controversial Dubai-based billionaire Nigerian, Ray Hushpuppi, expressed anger at Nigerian celebrities for failing to exploit their celebrity status in nipping the incessant attacks on Nigerians in… September 4, 2019 In "Entertainment"