North Korea said on Monday it was willing to restart nuclear talks with the United States in late September, but warned that chances of a deal could end unless the United States (US) takes a fresh approach. North Korean leader, Kim Jong Un, agreed in a June 30 meeting with US president, Donald Trump, to reopen working-level talks stalled since their failed February summit in Hanoi, but this has yet to happen in spite of repeated appeals from Washington, Reuters reported. In a statement carried by North Korea’s official KCNA news agency, Vice North Korean Foreign Minister Choe Son Hui said Pyongyang was willing to have “comprehensive discussions” with the United States in late September at a time and place agreed between both sides. ALSO READ: Apple alters algorithm to less favour own apps ranking Trump was asked about the offer while speaking to reporters at the White House and said talks were always a good thing. “We’ll see what happens,” he said. Asked for comment, a US State Department spokeswoman said: “We don’t have any meetings to announce at this time.” On Sunday, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he hoped to return to denuclearization talks with North Korea in the coming days or weeks. Choe stressed that Washington needed to present a new approach or the talks could fall apart again. “I want to believe that the US side would come out with an alternative based on a calculation method that serves both sides’ interests and is acceptable to us,” Choe said. “If the US side toys with an old scenario that has nothing to do with the new method at working-level talks which would be held after difficulties, a deal between the two sides may come to an end.” In April, Kim set a year-end deadline for the United States to show more flexibility in talks, which broke down in February over U.S. demands for North Korea to give up all of its nuclear weapons and Pyongyang’s demands for relief from punishing U.S.-led international sanctions. ALSO READ: Xenophobia: We ’ll take appropriate action – AU tells SERAP on request to sue SA for $10bn The end-of-September time frame would coincide with the annual United Nations General Assembly in New York, which Pompeo is due to attend. North Korea’s mission to the United Nations said last week that Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho would not attend “due to his schedule.” North Korea has demanded that Pompeo be replaced with a “more mature” person in the U.S. negotiating team, while lauding the rapport built between Kim and Trump in three meetings since June 2018. The US special representative for North Korea, Stephen Biegun, led working-level talks with North Korea in the run-up to the failed Hanoi meeting. Vanguard. North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said on Friday Pyongyang is ready for both dialogue and confrontation with the United States (US), warning Washington that continuing with sanctions would be a miscalculation, according to state media KCNA. Working-level talks between the United States and North Korea have yet to… August 23, 2019 In "Foreign" Chinese President Xi Jinping hopes "smooth" talks between North Korea's leader and the presidents of the United States and South Korea can produce progress towards Pyongyang's denuclearisation, according to state media. March 13, 2018 In "News" President Donald Trump, on arrival from the historic summit with Kim Jong un, the North korean Leader, said North Korea was no longer U.S. most dangerous problem. June 13, 2018 In "News"