ABUJA—The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu has urged young scientists representing Nigeria in the upcoming International Junior Science Olympiad, IJSO, holding in Qatar to strive to win the Gold medal for the country. The minister gave the charge on Thursday when he received the 2019 International Junior Science Olympiad in his office in Abuja. Dr. Onu also charged the young scientists to be good ambassadors for Nigeria, when they go to the Science Olympiad competition which is to hold early December this year. He said for Nigeria to achieve growth and development, only students with the most creative and innovative intellect would be good for the nation. Who they are: Profiles of Buhari’s ministers(Opens in a new browser tab) “In order to achieve a positive aspiration of our great country, it cannot be done without young people who are innovative, creative patriotic, brilliant and determined to put in their best. ‘‘In his words “Nobody will call you by name at Qatar, you will be known as Team Nigeria, because you are ambassadors representing Nigeria and through you, other people will develop interest in Science and Technology.” He expressed optimism that through the Young Junior Olympiad, other young people would be inspired to focus more on Science, Technology and Innovation. Vanguard Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology says research is ongoing to produce cement for road construction in the country. May 30, 2016 In "News" Worried by the undue pressure being brought on the nation’s currency by the fragility of the economy, the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, has charged the country to rise up and employ science and technology as the suitable instrument to help to diversify and strengthen the economy. March 22, 2016 In "News" Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, the Minister of Science and Technology says Nigeria is preparing to partner with Portugal to host Technology Summit scheduled to hold in the country later this year. Onu disclosed this known in Abuja during an official signing of an MoU between Nigeria and Republic of Portugal on… February 2, 2017 In "Technology"