Sequel to his promise to address the dilapidated infrastructure in the state, with a view to ensuring economic development, Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State has flagged off the construction of 81-kilometre urban roads project worth N23.4 billion in the state. This is just as the governor promised that his adminis-tration would not consider geographical divisions in addressing the developmental needs of the state. The governor, who stated this while performing the flag-off of the projects yesterday, said part of his administration’s cardinal agenda is to run a one-stop state, where democracy dividends will be evenly distributed across the 27 local government areas of the state. The 16 roads earmarked for construction under the project include Nkume/Umuowa/Owerri Ebiri/Umuna/Orlu; Imo State University Teaching Hospital, Umuna; Mgbidi/Oguta; Douglas/Emmanuel College/Naze and Naze/Poly/Iheagwa/Obinze. P&ID: Meet Quinn, Irish man on verge of claiming $9.6bn from Nigerian govt(Opens in a new browser tab) Others are Control-Post/World Bank; Ahiara Junction/Okpala; IMSU/Bishop’s Court; Okigwe Town/St. Mary’s Catholic Church, MCC/Toronto junction, Aba Branch/Ahiara Junction, Concorde/Zuma/Port Harcourt, among others. The governor also flagged off the reconstruction of Government Technical College, Okporo, Orlu; Government Technical College, Owerri; Dan Anyiam Stadium and Grasshopper International Handball Stadium, Owerri. Speaking at the flag off of the Assumpta Roundabout-Port Harcourt Road project, the Archbishop of Catholic Archdiocese of Owerri, His Grace, Most Rev. Anthony Obinna, commended the governor and urged him to ensure that the projects are supervised for quality. Vanguard The governor of Imo state, Emeka Ihedioha, has launched the construction of 13.5bn rural road project. August 28, 2019 In "News" Governor of Imo State, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON has reiterated his commitment to ensuring the welfare of traders in the state. July 10, 2019 In "News" The former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Chief Emeka Ihedioha, has expressed shock over media reports that Imo State government has earmarked over N600 million for Christmas and New Year decorations in the state. December 3, 2015 In "News"