Concerned stakeholders have appealed to President Muhamadu Buhari to resolve the lingering factional crisis in the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers state. Interest group, Excellence Achievers Movement, through its President, Solomon Deesi Lenu, said yesterday in Port Harcourt that the division in the Rivers APC was robbing the party of its duty to constructively criticize the ruling People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in the state. Lenu said:” Time has come for President Buhari to look into the crisis that has paralyzed Rivers chapter of the APC. This crisis is working against the collective interest of Rivers people. “A state that twice produced Mr. President’s campaign Director-General, Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi deserves to effectively play an opposition role in governance by providing alternative directions for the Nyesom Wike’s administration. “Rivers people should benefit a great deal from the present government they voted into power, but the reverse is the case today because opposition APC in Rivers is in disarray and needs to be restored.” The group added that “We want the APC to be part of the solution to the deteriorating state of security, which appears to be too big for the current government to solve in Rivers. “The party constitution provides for an internal mechanism for settlement of disputes and if that fails, the leaders and executives at national level ought to prevail on the principal actors to ensure the party forges a common front to take its rightful place in serving its duties to the people of Rivers.”  Vanguard News The senator representing Rivers South-East at the National Assembly, Senator Magnus Abe and other leaders of the All Progressives Congress, APC, supporting his ambition have initiated moves to resolve the lingering crisis rocking the party in Rivers State. April 3, 2018 In "News" PORT HARCOURT—MR Tonye Cole has urged Rivers State people to remain steadfast in their support for the All Progressives Congress, APC, and its Presidential candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, adding that the party in the state will continue to campaign for him,  until the court allows APC candidates in the state to… January 21, 2019 In "News" PRO-RIVERS state All Progressives Congress (APC) group, Free Rivers Development Initiative, FRDI, has accused the media and detractors of blowing raging conflict of interests in the party towards 2019 out of proportion, saying “there is no division in Rivers APC” February 17, 2018 In "News"