Financial experts on Wednesday commended the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for its efforts in ensuring implementation of cashless policy in the country, just as they faulted the apex bank for inadequate sensitisation. Reports reveal that CBN on Tuesday issued a circular to deposit banks to commence the implementation of the cashless policy in six pilot states across the country. The apex bank directed that implantation should commence from Sept. 18 in Lagos, Ogun, Kano, Abia, Anambra and Rivers States as well as the Federal Capital Territory. It, however, stated that the nationwide implementation of the cash-less policy would take effect from March 31, 2020. The CBN explained that transactions will attract three per cent processing fees for withdrawal and two per cent processing fees for lodgement of amounts above N500,000 for individual accounts. Similarly, corporate accounts will attract five per cent processing fees for withdrawal and three per cent processing fees for lodgement of amounts above N3 million. An economic expert and Managing Director of Cyber1 Systems Network International, Mr Momoh Aliyu, told NAN in Abuja that the full implementation of the policy meant to enhance transparency was long overdue. Aliyu, however, said it was wrong for the policy to commence on Wednesday without adequate sensitisation of the citizenry. “Many have invoiced their transaction taking into cognizance taxes before today. This will create a loss in some businesses and such inconsistencies in government policies do not give investors confidence. “There is always the need to give ample notice for all charges or taxes. This will help corporate bodies and individuals make proper adjustments to invoicing and other negotiations,” he said. Another economic expert, Dr Samuel Fogbonjaiye, also said the policy was good and it was in furtherance of the cashless policy introduced by the apex bank. Fogbonjaiye explained that the policy was meant to monitor cash movement and basically to mop up excess liquidity meant to develop the sector. “Do you know some money bags have huge cash at hand and refused to pass it through bank accounting procedure? It is rather sad that not everyone in Nigeria has a genuine and functional bank account. “To me, not giving enough time is obviously not important, the earlier you start, the better,” he said. Vanguard By Babajide Komolafe & Adaeze Okechukwu For Mrs Julie Ebi, a Lagos Island based bureaux de change operator, the cashless policy is a bitter sweet experience that may be worsened by the recent reintroduction of cashless charges. “More often, I have encountered difficulties using e-platforms to do business transactions both… April 9, 2017 In "Business" Commercial banks operating in Lagos State have commenced the implementation of approved processing charges on cash withdrawal limits on individuals and corporate organisations in line with the directive by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), which fixed April 1, 2012 as the takeoff date. April 8, 2012 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yesterday, reintroduced charges on cash deposits in banks, which would take effect at different dates in different parts of the country February 24, 2017 In "News"