The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, said it has signed a Funding and Technical Services Agreement with CMES-OMS Petroleum Development Company, CPDC, for an $875.75 million alternative financing deal for the Nigerian Petroleum Development Company, NPDC-operated Oil Mining Lease, OML, 65. In a statement in Abuja, Chief Financial Officer of the NNPC, Mr. Umar Ajiya, explained that the package entailed comprehensive financing solution that addresses the complex issues involved in growing NPDC’s production minimizes its cost of capital and maximizes its value preservation. On CPDC’s right to provide technical services, he listed the field of consideration in this regard to include: drilling and completion services; building capacity and technology transfer; generating employment opportunities for youths with an attendant positive multiplier effect on the nation’s economy, among other considerations. He added that the deal it also struck a balance between risk and reward which gave investors a rate of return that was commensurate with funding a brownfield project which has significant exploration risk. Ajiya noted that the expectation was that the collaboration between the NPDC and CPDC would translate in real terms to the efficient execution of the scope of activities for the optimal development of the OML 65 asset within cost and schedule, whilst maximizing value to all the stakeholders. He said it was projected that the collaboration would enhance operational and financial performance strictly guided by the pre-agreed Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which remains critical for determining incentive payment due to CPDC. Ajiya further disclosed that the project, which scope cuts across exploration, development, production and provision of facilities with incremental first oil targeted for fourth quarter 2020, was estimated to have potential reserves of 800 million barrels of oil equivalent (mmboe) with an ultimate recoverable reserve of 244 mmboe and cumulative production of 44mmboe from the Abura Main and Abura SE fields. He explained that over the project’s life, it was expected to generate over $6.35 billion in taxes and royalties to the Federation to support the government’s medium to long term economic development agenda. He described the contractor financing model as an innovative approach by NPDC to funding its operations in response to the challenging economic environment, saying the approach would fast-track the development of NPDCs under-developed assets. He informed that the project was expected to ramp up production at OML 65 from 900barrels per day to 60, 000 barrels per day with average production over field life at 40,000 barrels per day. Vanguard The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) says it has signed a 3.15 billion dollars Financing and Technical Services Agreement between Sterling Oil Exploration and other partners for the development of Oil Mining Lease (OML) 13. July 23, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, said it has signed two sets of alternative financing agreements worth about $1.78 billion, for two major Joint Venture projects with two of its JV partners, Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL and Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC. August 3, 2017 In "News" The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, has signed agreements for seven Critical Gas Development Projects (7CGDP) to deliver about 3.4 billion standard cubic feet of gas per day (bscfd) to bridge the foreseen medium term supply gap by 2020 on an accelerated basis. July 9, 2018 In "Business"