The Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), a political group within the Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC), has urged Governor Godwin Obaseki to issue a fresh proclamation letter so that the State House of Assembly will be properly inaugurated. The group said it may be difficult for peace to return in the state APC unless the governor implements the directive of the National Assembly. The EPM stated this after a meeting of the group in Auchi, Edo State Thursday. According to the communique signed by Hon. Samson Osagie, Henry Idahagbon and others, the group lamented:” That we note with dissatisfaction the State of affairs of the Edo State House of Assembly wherein a minority have continued to operate as a house of Assembly in clear violations of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “That members of EPM across the State urge the Governor to immediately allow peace to reign in the State by ensuring that all 24 members elected to the Edo State House of Assembly are properly sworn in in accordance with the resolutions of the National Assembly.” READ ALSO: EdoJobs to graduate 400 youths from Data Science, EdoBits, other training programmes The EPM praised the courage of Hon Frank Okiye in withdrawing one of the numerous cases he filed in the Abuja division of the Federal High Court “in clear abuse of court processes” and urged “him and his sponsors to refrain from using the judiciary to perpetuate illegality in the Edo State House of Assembly.” They also stated that: “ Members of EPM Edo State, wishes to commend the leadership of the National Assembly and the Committees set up by the two houses to investigate the circumstances under which the Edo State House of Assembly was purportedly inaugurated on the 17th June, 2019 particularly for resisting the insidious influence against recommending that the even fell short of acceptable standard and should therefore be properly done. “That we are committed to an amicable resolution of the ongoing crisis rocking the APC, provided that Governor Obaseki and the State Chairman of the party Anselm Ojezua discontinued their divisive approach to party administration and relationship with government. “That the role the State Chairman of the party has been playing in the affairs of the party particularly since the crisis started has been most worrisome, self serving and inimical to the unity of the party.” EPM declared. It added that “The fresh call by EPM and their demands has put paid to the fact that all is still not well with the relationship between Oshiomhole, APC National Chairman and Gov. Obaseki and their supporters”. VANGUARD THE on-going peace moves between Governor Godwin Obaseki and Comrade Adams Oshiomhole may hit the rocks as one of the major opposition groups to Obaseki’s re-election move, Edo Peoples Movement, EPM, yesterday vowed to see that its two major objectives of re-positioning the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the state… June 12, 2019 In "Politics" BOMADI—A youth group, Niger Delta Youths for Good Governance, NDYGG, has condemned the directive given by the National Assembly to Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State on the prevailing issue in State House of Assembly. August 7, 2019 In "News" ATTEMPTS by the Governor Kayode Fayemi Peace Committee set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to mend the cracks in the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State, especially the alleged rancour between Governor Godwin Obaseki and the National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, have collapsed. August 4, 2019 In "News"