Popular Nigerian video jockey, actress and TV presenter, Laura Monyeazo Abebe, simply known as Moet Abebe, recently shared a semi-nude picture of herself with her body covered in silver spray on Instagram. Recall that Moet Abebe had in an Instagram post in April told her critics that they can call her a prostitute but they should not forget to credit her for the work she puts into her broadcasting career. The 30-year-old posted the picture on her Instagram page on Thursday. She captioned it: “The silver lining. Thank you all for going on this journey with me.” The University of Manchester graduate, who calls herself the radio goddess, is a believer in “tasteful nudity”. In a 2015 interview with Vanguard, she said: “If it’s tasteful and meaningful, why not? But I’m not going butt-naked. There are limits.” Love it or not, Moet Abebe’s relentless effort at showing off her body is gaining so much momentum.   “THE SILVER LINING” . . Thank you all for going on this journey with me… the site is live!!! Get ready to feast your eyes on all the different shades of the goddess. Get familiar with www.moetabebe.com A post shared by  Laura Abebe (Moet Abebe) (@moetabebe) on Sep 12, 2019 at 4:06am PDT  SoundCity VJ Laura Monyeazo Abebe popularly known as Moet Abebe who recently debuted in Nollywood after starring in Zik Zulu Okafor’s latest soap, “Oasis” presents the picture of someone who would not easily succumb to the unholy idea of exchanging her body for a movie role. October 18, 2014 In "Home Video People" Though born in England, Soundcity TV presenter and upcoming actress, Laura Monyeazo Abebe ,who goes by the name Moet Abebe, lived in Nigeria for 11 years before heading back to England to carry on with her education. In a recent chat with Sunday Vanguard, the screen goddess shared her passion,dreams… April 23, 2015 In "Entertainment" Radio goddess, Moet Abebe has over time declared her love for tattoos as she always shows off her inks. The Soundcity radio and television host recently got her 11th  tattoo  which she showed off on social media as well. October 19, 2018 In "Music"