Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has called on the residents of the Territory, especially students and youths, not to carry out retaliatory attacks on South African Nationals and business interests in the FCT over the recent xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. This was as he assured South African citizens of their safety in the territory, saying the Federal Government was already exploiting diplomatic channels to address the issue. Bello who stated this in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary CPS, Anthony Ogunleye on Wednesday, also appealed to residents to allow those efforts to succeed. 14 residents, others killed as militiamen attack Taraba community(Opens in a new browser tab) “Malam Bello further informed residents that those South African business interests in the FCT are in partnership with Nigerian investors and are contributing to the economic development of the Territory.  Attacking or vandalising them will ultimately have negative economic consequences for the Nigerian economy and employees of those organisations”, the statement added. He also assured South African Nationals and business interests in the FCT of their safety adding that it was the pleasure of the FCT Administration to have them living and working in the nation’s Federal Capital Territory. Xenophobic attack: Direct Nigerians to return home, CSOs tells FG(Opens in a new browser tab) While appealing to FCT residents to remain calm and go about their lawful activities, he warned that “law enforcement agencies have been mobilised to forestall any breakdown of law and order and that anybody instigating or participating in any acts of violence or vandalism will face the wrath of the law”. Vanguard By Omeiza Ajayi Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, has called on the residents of the Territory, especially students and youths, not to carry out retaliatory attacks on South African Nationals and business interests in the FCT over the recent xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in… September 4, 2019 In "News" MINISTER of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello said Friday, yesterday that there was no ethnic colouration to the recent attacks on some villages in the Federal Capital Territory. November 18, 2016 In "News" As Nigerians join the rest of the world to celebrate Easter, which marks the crucifixion and resurrection of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Minister of the Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA, Muhammad Musa Bello has urged residents of the territory to pray for Nigeria and President Muhammadu Buhari for the wellbeing,… April 14, 2017 In "News"