Nigerian Meteorological Agency of Nigeria (NiMet) has predicted thunderstorms and rains across the country for Monday. NiMet’s weather outlook on Sunday in Abuja Predicted partly cloudy condition with chances of thunderstorms over Sokoto, Gusau and Yelwa of Northern states in the morning hours. Fever can boost immune mechanism — Study(Opens in a new browser tab) It furter predicted thunderstorms over Katsina, Kano, Dutse, Maiduguri and Yobe while the other parts are expected to be in cloudy condition later in the day. The agency envisaged the day and night temperature of the region to be 30 to 35 degree Celsius and 20 to 24 degree Celsius respectively. “For Central states, cloudy conditions are expected with chances of thunderstorms over Abuja, Jos, Bauchi, Mambilla plateau and Kaduna axis during the morning hours. “Thunderstorms and rains are likely in the afternoon/evening period with day and night temperatures expected to be 27 to 34 degree and 16 to 24 degree Celsius respectively,” it said. BBNaija Saturday night party: Esther, Frodd take centre stage, go sensual(Opens in a new browser tab) NiMet forecast thunderstorms/rains over Ibadan, Oshogbo, Akure, Abeokuta and the coastal region of Soutern stateswith the south east inland likely to be in cloudy condition in the morning hours. According to it, thunderstorms/rains are likely over this region in the afternoon/evening hours with day and night temperatures of 28 to 34 degree Celsius and 19 to 25 degree Celsius respectively. (NAN) Vanguard The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet), has predicted cloudy weather conditions over the Central States on Monday morning with isolated thunderstorms over Abuja, Jalingo, Jos, Bauchi, Gombe, Yola, Ibi and Mambilla Plateau. August 6, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted cloudy weather conditions over the central states of the country with slim chances of thunderstorms over Mambilla Plateau on Sunday morning. May 5, 2018 In "News" Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted cloudy condition over most cities in the country on Friday.predicted cloudy condition over Northern States with chances of thunderstorms over Katsina and Maiduguri axis in the morning hours. July 25, 2019 In "News"