Dino Melaye, the senator whose election was nullified by the Kogi State election tribunal in Lokoja, has turned down his party’s appointment as the Director-General of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. Disclosing this via his twitter handle, the embattled Senator wished his party best, noting that ‘when truth is a casualty there is chaos’. Recall that Dino had lost to Engr Musa wada during the party’s gubernatorial primary in Kogi state.  He came fourth with 70 votes while, Aminu Suleiman- 55 votes, Victor Adoji-54, Erico Joseph- 42, AVM Saliu Atawodi (retd.)- 11, Emmanuel Omebije- 9 votes, Mohammed Shuaibi- 4 votes, Bayo Michael- 2 votes and Jabiru Haruna- 0, Abubakar Mohammed Ibrahim-710 votes, and Musa Wada with 748 votes to emerge winner. Okowa hails Wike’s victory, says power truly belongs to the people(Opens in a new browser tab) In view of that the National Chairman of the party, Uche Secondus pronounced him the DG for the forthcoming November 16 governorship election. Shocking it would be for the party when Dino openly said, “Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. I wish PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos. Senator Dino Melaye”. See tweet below: Let me state categorically that I have turned down the position of Director-General of the PDP Kogi State Governorship Campaign Council. I wish PDP all the best. When truth is a casualty there is chaos. Senator Dino Melaye — Senator Dino Melaye. (SDM) (@dino_melaye) September 13, 2019  Vanguard By Henry Umoru  ABUJA- AHEAD of the November 16 Kogi State Governorship election, Chairman, Senate Committee on Aviation, Senator Dino Melaye, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Kogi West has vehemently rejected the position of Director General of his party's Gubernatorial Campaign Council. Melaye who declined via Whatsapp  message, may not be… September 13, 2019 In "News" Dino Melaye, senator representing Kogi west, has rejected the results of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primary election in Kogi state. September 5, 2019 In "News" The lawmaker representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Senator Dino Melaye and Abubakar Ibrahim, son of former Kogi state governor, Ibrahim Idris, Thursday, kicked against the emergence of Engineer Musa Wada as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship election in Kogi state slated for November 16. September 5, 2019 In "News"