The market for chat commerce is significantly huge in Nigeria due to the population of people using a cell phone to interact on a daily basis, said Chief Commercial Officer, Clickatell, Mr Hannes Van Rensburg. In a statement made available to Vanguard, Van Rensburg said that the reason e-commerce companies are struggling in Nigeria is because the population of Nigerians that browse the internet on their laptop and personal computers is very small. “But the number of people that have a cell phone and interact with users is almost everybody and so the market for chat commerce in Nigeria is significantly bigger than the market for e-commerce,” he noted. He said that Clickatell understands emerging markets which is why it is coming to revolutionise the narrative on chat commerce, adding that the company is already doing business with banks, especially the big ones. According to him, the chat application is developed in such a way that the consumer knows the individual on the other side, explaining that it is encrypted, just like WhatsApp is encrypted end to end. Vanguard In recent times in Nigeria, online shopping which was alien to us is fast becoming an alternative means of transaction. This nascent sector of the economy which is not only limited to supply of products, is also providing quality services that meet the needs and expectations of consumers. December 15, 2014 In "Special Report" The Nigerian e-commerce in-dustry is said to currently worth over $17bn. This is buoyed by a growing cashless economy which has seen digital payment and electronic banking implemented in phases across 27 states of the federation, beginning with Lagos as a pilot in 2012. January 30, 2019 In "Technology" According to recent statistics, mobile commerce is worth $230 billion, about N46 trillion globally with Asia representing almost half of the market, and has been forecast to reach $700 billion in 2017. According to BI Intelligence, in January 2013, 29 per cent of mobile users have now made a purchase… August 17, 2015 In "Business"