ABUJA–THE Nigerian Army, Sunday, said three soldiers died while eight others sustained injuries during a fierce encounter between troops of Sector 3 of Operation Lafiya Dole attached to Super Camp Munguno and Boko Haram terrorists on Saturday. The troops were said to have encountered the terrorists while on patrol along Monguno-Mairari-Gajiram axis of the North East region. But the army said the troops dealt a ‘devastating blow’ on the terrorists by killing “countless number while a few escaped with gun shot wounds going by blood trails in the general area.” The acting Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa,in a statement, said, “the patrol team came in contact with the terrorists and engaged them with heavy volume of fire that neutralized countless number while a few escaped with gun shot wounds going by blood trails in the general area.” Troops kill 5, arrest 4 bandits in Kaduna(Opens in a new browser tab) The statement read in full:”Troops of Sector  3, Operation Lafiya Dole attached to Super Camp Monguno on Friday 30th August 2019 while on patrol dealt a devastating blow on Boko Haram terrorists along Monguno-Mairari-Gajiram axis. “The patrol team came in contact with the terrorists and engaged them with heavy volume of fire that neutralized countless number while a few escaped with gun shot wounds going by blood trails in the general area. “The gallant troops also recovered some weapons and equipment  from the terrorists. “Sadly, during the encounter 3 of our gallant soldiers paid the supreme price while 8 other soldiers sustained injuries. “The bodies of the fallen heroes and those that sustained injuries have since been evacuated. 3 soldiers killed as troops foil Boko Haram attack in Borno(Opens in a new browser tab) “The wounded are being treated and are in stable condition. ” The highly motivated troops have continued combing the general area with a view to clear remnants of hiding terrorists. “The Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General TY Buratai, along with some Principal Staff Officers from the Army Headquarters, Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole and other commanders, have visited the troops and those wounded in action.” Vanguard The Army on Thursday said it killed Fifteen insurgents and lost two soldiers in a fierce battle between its troops and Boko Haram terrorists in Abadam village, Borno. September 23, 2016 In "News" No fewer than 50 Boko Haram terrorists were reportedly killed by soldiers of 145 Battalion in a battle after Boko Haram terrorists attacked troops' base in Damasak, Bornu State. September 14, 2018 In "News" The Nigerian Army said last night that remnants of Boko Haram terrorists in their numbers attacked troops location at Rann, Kala Balge Local Government Area of Borno State and that, after a heavy gunfire confrontation, 16 of the terrorists were killed. July 10, 2016 In "News"