The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has commended five domestic airlines for their consistency in the remittance of the five  per cent Ticket Sales Charges/Cargo Sales Charges (TSC/CSC). A statement issued by Mr Sam. Adurogboye, General Manager, Public Relations, NCAA on Sunday in Lagos said the agency’s Director-General (D-G) , Capt. Muhtar Usman, made the commendation during a meeting with  the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON). Usman said the payment was in compliance with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Act 2006 (As amended). According to him, the airlines are : Air Peace Airline, Overland Airways, Medview Airline, Aero Contractors and Allied Air Limited. He said that the  key considerations for recognition by the NCAA of airlines  were timely remittance of Cargo Sales Charges (CSC) and beneficial working relationship, especially,   the Aviation Revenue Automation Project (ARAP). Housewife drags ex-husband to court, seeks N1.1m for daughter’s upkeep(Opens in a new browser tab) Usman said that the prompt remittances  had contributed to effective, efficient, safe and secure operations by the regulatory agency. He appreciated the operators for their efforts despite daunting challenges in the business environment, expressing optimism that NCAA  would continue to honour its financial obligations and carry out seamless airline operations. Similarly, Usman congratulated Allied Air Limited on its success in the International Air Transport Association (IATA) Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) recently carried out. He, thereafter,  presented commendation letters to the five airlines and also acceded to the AON’s request for an extension of 90 days to enable operators  yet to comply with  ARAP to key into it. The statement said that the operators consisting of about 33 schedule and non-schedule commercial airlines, enumerated some grey areas affecting their operational efficiency. They expressed hope that the NCAA would intervene in the aforementioned areas of concern and also called for more frequent meetings between the airlines and the regulatory authority. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has called on domestic airlines yet to fully automate their remittance of the five per cent Ticket and Cargo Sales Charges (TSC/CSC) do so by December. November 2, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has said its recently released figures of revenue generated from aviation charges are verifiable. June 24, 2018 In "Aviation" The fourteen day ultimatum given by the regulatory authority to debtor airlines to pay up their debts expired on August 13.Following the expiration, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has declared that it was determined to sanction all defaulting airlines who fail to pay up the five per cent Ticket Sales… August 17, 2015 In "News"