Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, has said that the success of his office was largely dependent on his aides. It will be recalled that the Speaker upon his election announced a number of appointees to help him drive his agenda anchored on “Nation Building: A Joint Task”. He urged his aides to work diligently and contribute significantly to the task of transforming the country. ALSO READ: President Buhari speaks on why he appointed women in strategic places According to Gbajabiamila, his aides came with a lot of experience and maturity, urging them to apply the same in their various responsibilities in the next four years. The Speaker spoke during a retreat for his appointees organised by his office in collaboration with PERL-ECP Nigeria, a project under DFID, challenged all his aides to brace up for the task ahead as they work towards achieving his agenda themed ‘Nation Building: A Joint Task.’ He said: “Success for me, as Speaker of the 9th House of Representatives, depends on you doing the work to which you have been assigned, and doing so diligently and with integrity, never leaving room for friends and foes alike to question either your commitment or your sincerity. “It is to all of you gathered in this room that I depend on to drive the agenda, develop performance indices, monitor implementation, evaluate outcomes and report on the way forward. So far, I have been impressed by the contributions and output from some of you. The initiatives you have taken, the ideas you have championed and the efforts you have made are encouraging; they give me confidence that we have assembled a team that at its best, can and will be transformational. “We are here for the country, to make the country work. Everybody here was carefully selected.‎ So, don’t undermine your offices. You are here to work for the country, and that’s a huge responsibility. ‎Gbajabiamila added that the task ahead was enormous. “The task before us is enormous. Fate and circumstance have called us to serve at a time of rapid, inexorable change. Our population growth far outpaces the rate of economic growth. Insecurity has made large swathes of our country uninhabitable for citizens and unattractive to investment. Our education system is producing graduates who cannot compete in the 21st-century knowledge economy. “We are fighting insurgents in the North East who want to remake our world in the image of a medieval theocracy. Economic and social inequity continue to exacerbate our age-old conflicts, making cooperation and progress difficult, and often impossible. All the old certainties have fallen aside, and we are confronted with the dire consequences of years of poor planning, poor implementation, corruption and indiscipline.‎” “I want you to remember today as always what our mission is; to protect those who need us to shield them, to empower through opportunity, to decide what future we want and then to build it. This is our mandate, and we will deliver because we must, because there is no alternative,” he said. In a brief remark, the Chief of Staff to Gbajabiamila, Hon Sanusi Garba Rikiji, thanked the Speaker for giving him and other aides the opportunity to work with him. “I call on my dear colleagues to consider our appointments as a challenge and call to national duty. We will pay you back with loyalty and dedication. We will ensure that you achieve your goals,” Rikiji said.‎ In her address, the team leader of PERL, Dr Adiya Ode, team leader of Partnership to Engage, Reform and Learn (PERL), commended Gbajabiamila for putting the structure to succeed. “This time is a time for greatness in the world. We look forward to seeing great things coming from you. Many young men and women are hungry and angry. We call on you our leaders to do something. I want to commend your agenda on reforms. We love your idea of budget reforms. “The issue of inclusion, women in governance. Please make space for women and the people living with disabilities. Thank you for your commitment to collaborate with the Executive. We have seen that in your actions,” she noted.‎ Vanguard Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila has said that governance in Nigeria was a difficult thing, stressing that it's not a tea party. July 23, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—Intense pressure from governors and politicians from North Central geopolitical zone may have forced the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, to a retreat over the adoption of Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the incoming 9th House of Representatives. April 10, 2019 In "News" Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila has formerly declared his intention to run for the speakership of the 9th House when inaugurated in June this year. March 31, 2019 In "News"