The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has warned parents who keep their school-age children out of school in the state risk being prosecuted in accordance with the States Child’s Right law. The Ekiti State government last week commenced school enrolment drive aimed at ensuring that all school-age children are enrolled for the forthcoming 2019/2020 academic session. Speaking in Eporo, Emure Ekiti during the sensitization program, Dr. Fayemi called on all parents and guardians to key into the free education program of his administration, saying that education is not only free but compulsory in Ekiti State. He added that it is an abuse of Child’s Right for any parent or guardian to deny school-age children the opportunity to go to school. “We have a Child’s Right Act in Ekiti which prohibits parents from disallowing children of school age to be out of school during school session. If your child is not in school when the school is in session, you have a lot to explain because we will apprehend the child whether he is found hawking on the street or engaging in any illicit activities which prevent the child from being in school. “The parents will have to explain to the government or the relevant institutions why that child is not in school. In order to ensure that we implement that law, we have a family court in the state that takes responsibility for children that are not in school and parents who fail their responsibility”, he said. Fayemi pledged his administration readiness to restore the State to its pride of place as the fountain of knowledge and top rank in school enrolment in Nigeria. The Governor revealed that his administration has provided instructional materials, furniture and a conducive learning environment where teachers can effectively contribute to the growth and development of their pupils. He cautioned that any teacher caught collecting any fee from the pupil will face the full wrath of the law. “For us in Ekiti, it is not enough to say we have free education. We need to enlighten our people particularly in the rural communities on the importance of education and the necessity for their wards to be enrolled because education is also compulsory in our state and we are doing this for basic education level because we have experienced some challenges in the last four years in the state. “Enrolment figure in the state used to be the highest in the country up till 2014, and then we suffered a decrease in enrolment according to UBEC national figure. “We have a duty as a government to ensure that we get the figure back to where it used to be in order to build the foundation that is solid for our children and us have a duty to ensure that we don’t just encourage them to come to school but also provide everything to make sure education is pay-less for them whether in terms of the instructional materials or the school feeding that we now offer them in primary school or the encouragement we give the teacher to deliver competently.” “All these are things we are working on, and the school environment because it is not just the teacher quality but also the learning environment that contribute to the growth and development of the average child. You cannot put children in an environment where they can’t learn properly because they have notable and chairs, no fence to protect the school premises, the teachers don’t have all they need in terms of maintaining discipline, an entire gamut of responsibilities that we have as parents”, he said. Dr. Fayemi encouraged parents to enroll their children in public schools where there is qualified teaching personnel. He said the free education being enjoyed by Ekiti children is a return on the tax being paid by citizens of the state. Earlier, the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board, Prof Fransisca Aladejana and Southwest Zonal Director of UBEC, Mrs. Mudubi Roseline called on parents to enrol their children in public schools because of the availability of qualified and competent teachers as well as conducive learning environment, provided by the government while also calling on religious and political leaders to help sensitive parents on the need to enroll their school-age children this session. Ado-Ekiti-The Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has abolished the education development levy introduced by the government of Mr. Ayodele Fayose in all primary and secondary schools in the state. October 17, 2018 In "News" Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has warned that henceforth, government will arrest parents of pupils found hawking during school hours; stressing that parents must take advantage of the free education policy of his government to reduce the number of out-of-school children. January 27, 2019 In "News" Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State has clarified his stance on the fate of the immediate past governor of the state, Ayodele Fayose. November 26, 2018 In "Politics"