President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the president’s victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal. The tribunal on Wednesday dismissed the petition by the Peoples Democratic Party and its candidate, Atiku Abubakar, in its entirety. Lawan in a statement on Wednesday by his Spokesperson, Ola Awoniyi said that the judgment had put a judicial seal on the mandate freely given to the president by Nigerians in the February 23 presidential election. Lawan urged the president to accept the affirmation of his election as a reminder of the confidence of Nigerians in his capacity to continue to lead the country to greatness. The senate president said Nigerian people had great expectations from the “Next Level Agenda” of the president and further pledged full cooperation of the National Assembly in the pursuit of the best interest of the Nigerian people. Lawan also commended the petitioners for using the judicial window prescribed by the constitution in seeking redress for their grievances and urged them to join hands with the government and the Nigerian people in the important task of nation-building. (NAN) Vanguard. Uneasy lies the head that wears the crown. It is a fact that Senator Bukola Saraki seems to have learned as Senate President. He, however, soldiers on with a determination to imprint a legacy December 29, 2015 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State on Wednesday reacted to the tribunal judgment which validated the election of President Muhammadu Buhari as duly elected. September 11, 2019 In "News" The popular grassroots group and socio-economic movement, Edo Peoples Movement has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole following the victory of the President at the Presidential Election Tribunal today, Wednesday, 11th of May. September 11, 2019 In "News"