The Senate has summoned the Ministers of Police Affairs, Muhammadu Maigari Dingyadi and Interior Minister, Rauf Aregbesola, over the deteriorating conditions of police colleges across the country. The Senate sent the invite to the ministers after the consideration of a motion sponsored by Senator Barinada Mpigi, of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Rivers South-East and nine others during plenary. It also urged the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, to as a matter of urgent national security intervene in the deteriorating condition of the Police College in Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State. In its resolution, the senate also urged the Police Service Commission to take adequate measures and inventory of police colleges in the nation to ensure that the standard meets acceptable global limits for efficient policing. In his motion, Mpigi, while highlighting the role of the police in the provision of security, noted that the establishment of police colleges was for the purpose of training effective police officers for the prevention and detection of crimes. He said, “The Police College, existing in Tai Local Government Area of Rivers State, which serves for the training of police officers across the nation, had been virtually abandoned and at the brink of collapse. Poor staffing management and other facilities make the college unfit for habitation.” The lawmaker warned that the poor state had made the college to become a dilapidated facility that lowers the morale of trainees.  Mohammed Maigari Dingyadi was born in 1953 in Dingyadi, Sokoto State. He had his Secondary Education at Government College, Sokoto. After his secondary education, he went to the School of Basic Studies for a 2-year course. August 21, 2019 In "News" The Senate on Tuesday after five days screening exercise confirmed President Muhammadu Buhari's 43 ministerial nominees who appeared before it. July 30, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday announced the creation of five new Ministries, namely; Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Police Affairs and Ministry of Special Duties and International Affairs. August 21, 2019 In "News"