The Chairman designate of the Niger Delta Development Commission, Dr. Pius Odubu, has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari for his victory today at the Presidential Election Tribunal after the petition filed by the candidate of the opposition party challenging the President’s electoral victory was dismissed in its entirety. Dr. Pius Odubu, who issued the congratulatory message on behalf of the newly-appointed board of the NDDC, said the President’s victory is no surprise as Nigerians across the country truly voted for him in the General Elections. He also expressed satisfaction that the President’s victory is coming at a time he is doubling his efforts to ensure sustainable development in the Niger Delta region and the empowerment of its citizens, as well as national economic growth. Omo-Agege is a reflection of the Niger Delta spirit – Loyibo(Opens in a new browser tab) Dr. Odubu also congratulated that National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for his stellar leadership which has yielded progress and wider acceptance of the party. He described the National Chairman’s reforms and capable leadership as the ‘tonic’ the party needs to consolidate on its successes and achieve greater victories. The NDDC Chairman designate assured the President and the party of the NDDC’s readiness to implement the President’s development agenda for the Niger Delta region with zest and a single-minded focus. Vanguard More praises have trailed the emergence of Dr. Pius Odubu of Edo State as the Chairman of the newly-constituted board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, as Benin Trust UK, an Edo diaspora group based in the United Kingdom, commended the decision of the President. August 30, 2019 In "News" WARRI- A Niger Delta group, Meinbutus Federated Communities, Warri Kingdom, Delta State, has called on the newly appointed Chairman and Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Dr. Pius Odubu and Mr. Bernard Okumagba respectively, to work towards the development of Niger Delta, particularly completion of the East-West Road. September 1, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, has approved the composition of the Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission NDDC, naming a former deputy governor of Edo state, Dr Pius Odubu as its Chairman. August 27, 2019 In "News"