There is no chance that the presidents of the United States, Donald Trump and Iran, Raohani will meet during the United Nations General Assembly this week, an Iranian official told Reuters on Wednesday, “Zero,” said the official on condition of anonymity as Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani prepared to give a speech at the annual gathering of world leaders in New York amid heightened tension between the longtime enemies. The confrontation between Tehran and Washington has ratcheted up since last year when U.S. President Donald Trump withdrew from Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with major powers and reimposed sanctions that have crippled its economy. In his UN speech on Tuesday, Trump accused Iranian leaders of “bloodlust” and called on other nations to join the United States in applying pressure on Iran after Sept. 14 attacks on Saudi oil facilities that Washington blames on Tehran despite its denials, Reuters reported. On Wednesday, the US Treasury announced new Iran-related sanctions on five Chinese individuals and six entities it accuses of knowingly transferring oil from Iran in violation of Washington’s curbs on Tehran. The entities include two Cosco Shipping subsidiaries but not the parent company itself. However, Trump also said there was a path to peace and Rouhani, the nuclear pact’s architect has left the door open to diplomacy, saying that if sanctions were lifted, Washington could join nuclear talks between Tehran and other powers. Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States and Iran are set to put forward their competing visions of security in the Middle East to the United Nations General Assembly this week, with US President Donald Trump expected to address the gathering of world leaders on Tuesday, and Iranian President Hassan Rouhani the following day.… September 23, 2019 In "Foreign" Iranian President Hassan Rouhani is set to address the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Wednesday, with his speech expected to draw much attention as world leaders take to the podium for a second day. Rouhani is speaking amid worsening tensions between Iran and the U.S. and after he accused… September 25, 2019 In "Foreign" A senior Iranian official said on Saturday the United States had shown flexibility on the licensing of Iranian oil sales and this was a sign that Washington’s “maximum pressure” policy against Tehran had been defeated, state media reported. August 31, 2019 In "News"