Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said on Friday night that the late former Zimbabwean President, Robert Mugabe, was a hugely respected figure on the continent because of his zeal, passion and selfless commitment to the emancipation of his country men and women and the self realization of other black people elsewhere. Osinbajo, according to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, stated this on arrival in Harare for the funeral of the man who ruled the Southern African nation for 37 years. “Nigeria most respectfully condoles with the Republic of Zimbabwe on the passing of her President, Robert Mugabe – who led the republic and her people to freedom and majority rule – alongside so many other patriots. His legacy of determined, proud and assertive black emancipation will live long in the hearts of Africans. We wish the people of Zimbabwe great peace and prosperity,” the statement quoted the Vice President as saying on the condolence register opened for Mugabe at the Harare International Airport. He added: “First let me say that for all of us, the whole of Africa, the memories of the years of decolonization, the years of the struggle for black majority rule in various places are years that bring joy and confidence to most of us, especially leaders today. “This is one of the reasons why President Robert Mugabe stood out as one of those leaders whose zeal, passion and selfless commitment to the emancipation of the people of Zimbabwe was not only a great encouragement to the independent movement everywhere, but more to the self-realization for black people practically everywhere. “So, his passing is indeed sad. I think that for most of us, especially those who are leaders today, there’s a lot to learn from such an incredibly illustrious career, especially the role that he played in decolonization. And, of course, alongside the work that was done, not just by the frontline states, but by the likes of Nelson Mandela in South Africa and so many other African patriots; their lives and times, especially during the period of the struggle for black majority rule in Southern Africa and the support that other African countries gave, especially sub-Saharan African countries; Nigeria being, as you’ve noted, a frontline state. There are times when I think we should be extremely proud of what we achieved as black people.” Vanguard President Jacob Zuma of South Africa spoke to Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe on Wednesday, and Mugabe told Zuma that he was confined to his home but that he was fine. November 15, 2017 In "News" Former President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has described the late President of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe as an indomitable fighter. September 6, 2019 In "News" The African Union (AU) on Wednesday welcomed the resignation of Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe. November 22, 2017 In "News"