To improve disease diagnosis in the South-East zone of Nigeria, GE Healthcare is collaborating with Memfys Hospital to provide the SIGNA Explorer 1.5Tesla MRI system services and training on advance diagnosis of diseases. The partnership will  provide clinicians with detailed information about diseases such as cancer, neurological disorders and heart diseases. As the only dedicated Neurosurgery hospital in South-East Nigeria, Memfys Hospital is serving a population of over 60 million people. The new equipment will help the hospital to deliver high-quality medical services and better care to more patients across the region.  The latest technologies will help improve the hospital’s diagnostic capabilities for early detection of diseases and at the same time keep up with global best practices to provide the very best for the country and West Africa region at large. Over 1m new curable sexually transmitted infections recorded every day – WHO Research(Opens in a new browser tab) The Chief Executive Officer, Global Memfys & Co Ltd, Prof. Samuel C. Ohaegbulam, said as a leader in the neurosurgical space, they are committed to continuing providing high-quality patient care using modern, high tech and reliable equipment that meets the recommendation by the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS adding that acquisition of the SIGNA Explorer is a huge milestone towards the commitment. However, Memfys hospital, accredited by the West African College of Surgeons would be providing training for  young and experienced doctors embarking on a career in Neurosurgery and Spinal surgery. General Manager for West & Central and French Sub-Sahara Africa Region, Eyong Ebai said they would continue to collaborate with private and public partners to co-create solutions to tackle pressing healthcare challenges for the region. “With the SIGNA Explorer 1.5Tesla MRI system, the people of South-East Nigeria will not need to leave the region for such specialized services as it has been the practice in the past,” Ebai stated.   As Tesla Cancer Hospital’s technology partner, GE Healthcare will provide the latest GE imaging technology, which will help doctors and patients with confidence in diagnosing. February 8, 2016 In "Healthcare" The Federal Ministry of Health, yesterday, entered into an agreement with the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, NSIA, managers of the nation’s sovereign wealth fund, to launch a comprehensive healthcare investment programme covering all six geo-political regions of the country that will also help stem the loss of over $1 billion… May 3, 2016 In "Business" THE Chief Medical Director (CMD), University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Prof. Jesse Otegbayo, has disclosed that the hospital would take the lead in the training of radiology informatics in the West African sub-region for precise and effective healthcare delivery in diseases such as cancer. September 1, 2019 In "News"