THE Chartered Institute of Nigeria, CIBN, in partnership with First Bank of Nigeria and other financial institutions will hold its 12th annual banking and finance conference this month. The President, CIBN, Uche Olowu, disclosed this in a press conference to announce the conference. He said the programme which will hold September 24 and 25, 2019 and themed: “The Future of the Nigerian Banking Industry – 360 degree”, is designed for financial institutions to come together to discuss and explore topical issues relating to finance. He said: “The theme of the conference is structured to make Nigerian banks, financial institutions, regulators, policy makers, other stakeholders to discuss how to re-position the banking and finance industry for relevance in the new world order by leveraging digitization, a phenomenon that has brought about a lot of unprecedented disruptive innovations in the industry.” African countries import $50bn worth of food annually – AfDB(Opens in a new browser tab) Addressing pressmen, Chairman, Conference Consultative Committee on the conference, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, said the dignitaries expected to grace the occasions which will hold in Abuja are the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo; Senate President, Ahmed Lawan; Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed; Minister Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Mohammed Musa; Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Godwin Emefiele; Governor, Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and many others. The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has concluded plans to meet government functionaries, bankers and other stakeholders on its policy advocacy drive that would engender growth and development of the economy. July 29, 2013 In "Finance" AS bankers from all over the world converge in Lagos for the World Conference of Banking Institutes (WCBI) next month, the Vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, will be leading the Federal Government team along with the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Godwin Emefiele, in projecting Nigeria’s financial… March 16, 2017 In "Business" The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) said it is engaging the National Assembly, regulators, Bank CEOs, relevant Government agencies, Ministers and State Governors on how to boost its activities in the banking sector. November 20, 2012 In "Business"