Arsenal say Nigeria midfielder Kelechi Nwakali has joined Spanish Segunda B side SD Huesca on a three-year contract. “Kelechi Nwakali has joined Spanish Segunda Division side SD Huesca on a permanent deal,” read a statement on Arsenal’s official website. “We will like to wish Kelechi all the best for the future. “The deal is subject to the completion of regulatory processes.” READ ALSO: Bale snaps drought as Real edge past struggling Huesca The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nwakali linked up with the Gunners in 2016 after captaining Nigeria to win the 2015 FIFA Under-17 World Cup. FICHAJE | El joven mediapunta nigeriano Kelechi Nwakali firma por tres temporadas con la @SDHuesca, procedente del @ArsenalEspanol ¡Bienvenido, @Kelechi_nwakali! info: https://t.co/JUVkTf6Xyw#KelechiNoRebla  pic.twitter.com/hx6y1jfQO1 — SD Huesca (@SDHuesca) September 2, 2019 There he won the Golden Ball as the tournament’s best player. SD Huesca also announced the signing of Nwakali on their official Twitter page and website on Monday. “TRANSFER | The young Nigerian midfielder Kelechi Nwakali signs for
three seasons with the @SDHuesca, coming from @ArsenalEspanol.
You are welcome, @Kelechi Nwakali!,” the spanish club tweeted. NAN also reports that he spent the first half of the 2017/2018 season on loan at VVV Venlo in the Ditch Eredivisie, before joining MW Maastricht. During these two loan spells, he made 30 appearances. Last season, he spent time on loan with FC Porto in the Portuguese Primeira Liga.(NAN) VANGUARD Nigeria international, Kelechi Nwakali has signed a one year loan deal with Portuguese giants, FC Porto from Arsenal of England after having his medical in Lisbon, Tuesday. July 21, 2018 In "News" Former Golden Eaglets star, Kelechi Nwakali  said his aim in the 2019 season will be to make an impact in the Portuguese league with Porto FC. July 23, 2018 In "Sports" FC Porto of Portugal summer arrival, Kelechi Nwakali has declared himself ready for a regular run with the Super Eagles, starting with next month’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Seychelles. August 25, 2018 In "News"