Former African long jump champion, Yusuf Alli has said that the Edo 2020 National Sports Festival would be a benchmark for future sports fiesta in the country. Alli who remains the national record holder with 8.27m was appointed the director of organisation for the festival billed for March 20-April 20, 2020, by Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki in his quest to deliver a perfectly organised Sports Festival. “The NSF is key to our national sports development and we must attach much importance to it. Almost all Nigerian international athletes passed through it. “This is why we are going to work very hard to deliver a sports festival that should be a benchmark for future festivals. READ ALSO: 12 African Games: We’ll prepare adequately for 2020 Olympics — Sports Minister “It will be open to all Nigerians and we are using the best international practices to run all the events. For instance in track and field, we are having the mandatory three entrance per State and with this, we expect that competition would be keen and we expect world standard performances,” said Alli Governor Obaseki, while accepting to host the festival, promised to fight against any militating factor that could cause a shift in date for the Sports festival and so far there are indications that Edo 2020 is on course. Work is in progress at all the facilities and would be ready for use. VANGUARD The Federal Government on Monday in Abuja signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Edo State Government on the hosting of the 20th edition of the National Sports Festival (NSF). February 4, 2019 In "News" The curtains for the 19th National Sports Festival will be drawn today after 10 days of tough competitions among over 8,000 athletes and once again Team Delta came tops with over a 100 gold medals. December 16, 2018 In "Sports" It is certainly an exciting festive season for Delta sports men and women as many of them will still be celebrating the millions of Naira gained from the 19th National Sports Festival (NSF) in Abuja. December 26, 2018 In "Sports"