South African rapper, Kiernan Jarryd Forbes known professionally as AKA is currently trending on twitter after a tweet he sent irked a lot of Nigerians as it didn’t seem to douse tension resulting from the xenophobic attack on African foreigners in South Africa. AKA tweeted ‘stay in your country’ on a day Nigerians and the rest of Africa are thinking of how to come to terms with the xenophobic attacks going on in South Africa. AKA who is not new to controversy also took to twitter after South Africa’s 1-2 loss to Nigeria in the quarter-finals during the Nations Cup and wrote “We should have just lost to Egypt … rather than Nigeria.” As a sign of disapproval, a check by Vanguard revealed that Nigerian singer, Davido has unfollowed AKA on Instagram, an action that is being hailed by many. READ ALSO: The good, bad and ugly tweets on xenophobic attacks on Nigeria in South Africa Also, in their usual fashion, Nigerians have been on AKA’s twitter handle trading words with the rapper. See some reactions to AKA’s tweet below… Imagine I said “stay in your country” … the uproar. — AKA (@akaworldwide) September 3, 2019  You gotta stay in your country, we don’t want any South African celebrities in Nigeria no more — Youngboss (@Kesss101) September 3, 2019  You gotta stay in your country, we don’t want any South African celebrities in Nigeria no more — Youngboss (@Kesss101) September 3, 2019  Which one is “imagine if I said “ say it with you chest….Are you scared. — Ene (@Airneh__) September 3, 2019  With your head like ST Louis cube sugar… You no wan get sense abi. Ask For the meaning of “AKA” in Yoruba  ode — Ninjitsu (@mukhtar_usman) September 3, 2019  You are as wicked as those people attacking us… I pray you get the same fate as those being attacked — Sept 6th (@zeekxxl) September 3, 2019  Man, you talk too much, Always controversial….. — Captain (@carlead24) September 3, 2019  Aka loves Nigeria, unfortunately the naija tweeps are just angry at everyone at this point — Stanswempu  (@mbusoSavvy) September 3, 2019  U see Why Casper calls you a SNITCH.. — ***V.J SUGAR RUSH*** (@Thefranknation) September 3, 2019  VANGUARD South African rapper, Kiernan Jarryd Forbes popularly known as AKA surely has a lot of female fans in South Africa who would give anything to have the handsome dude in their lives. However the rapper revealed to Showtime that he also has a soft-spot for Nigerian women. November 28, 2015 In "Entertainment" The nominees announced in the Best International Act Award category are Nigerian musicians Burna Boy and Mr. Eazi alongside South African Hip Hop rapper AKA. Also included in the category are Dave and Giggs from the UK with Aya Nakamura and Dosseh from France. May 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigeria again dominated this year's MTV Africa Music Awards, MAMA, carting away most of the coveted trophies. Leading the way was Davido, who retained his title as Africa's Best male Artiste of the year. He won the same award last year. The Aye crooner beats his South African counterpart, AKA,… July 19, 2015 In "Entertainment"