ABUJA–THE Nigerian Air Force,NAF,has said its attack aircraft attached to its Air Task Force,of Operation Lafiya Dole, killed scores of Boko Haram terrorists in an air strikes carried out yesterday, Saturday, in Yuwe area of Borno State. The Director of Public Relations and Information,NAF, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola,in a statement, Sunday morning, said the air raid which was executed in continuation of Operation Green Sweep 3,followed a “credible Human Intelligence,HUMINT reports, which were also corroborated by series of Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance,ISR, missions, that the settlement was being used as a hideout for the Boko Haram terrorists.” “The ATF therefore detailed two Alpha Jets and an L-39ZA aircraft to attack the target area. As the aircraft arrived overhead the target area, several Boko Haram terrorists were seen attempting to flee while many others concealed themselves in the structures and dense vegetation of the area. ” The jets took turns attacking the target, scoring crucial hits on the hideout leading to the neutralization of several Boko Haram terrorists fighters,”the statement said. We’re winning war against terror – President Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) It read in full:”Nigerian Air Force (NAF) attack aircraft of the Air Task Force (ATF), Operation LAFIYA DOLE have neutralized scores of Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) in air strikes conducted yesterday, 31 August 2019, at Yuwe ‘C’ in Borno State. “The air raid was executed in continuation of Operation GREEN SWEEP 3 after credible Human Intelligence (HUMINT) reports, which were also corroborated by series of Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions, established that the settlement was being used as a hideout for the BHTs. “The ATF therefore detailed 2 Alpha Jets and an L-39ZA aircraft to attack the target area. As the aircraft arrived overhead the target area, several BHTs were seen attempting to flee while many others concealed themselves in the structures and dense vegetation of the area. The jets took turns attacking the target, scoring crucial hits on the hideout leading to the neutralization of several BHT fighters. ” The NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its operations against the terrorists in the Northeast.” Vanguard The Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation LAFIYA DOLE, has decimated a major tactical base of the Boko Haram Terrorists (BHT) in Borno. August 12, 2019 In "News" THE Nigerian Air Force, NAF,Thursday morning, said its Air Task Force,ATF, of Operation Lafiya Dole,last Tuesday,destroyed Boko Haram terrorists' logistics base, along with some vehicles, at Tumbun Sale in Northern Borno State. October 25, 2018 In "News" THE Nigerian Air Force component of Operation Lafiya Dole, operating in the North East, has killed many Boko Haram terrorists in an air raid targeted at their camps in Mangosum village. May 3, 2017 In "News"