Kaduna State Urban Planning Development Agency (KASUPDA) says it embarks on massive demolition of structures, across the state, for the expansion of roads under the State Urban Renewal Programme. Mr Omega Jacob, Director, Urban Planning and Research of the agency, made this known to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in kaduna. Warri Benin Federal Highway: Delta State Govt set to intervene(Opens in a new browser tab) He said the demolition also aimed at providing modern infrastructure in the state capital to boost economic development. According to him, the demolition is also to pave way for the dualisation of  WAFF road, from NEPA Roundabout to Essence Junction, Alkali road and Isa Kaita road under the project. Jacob said the dualisation of the roads would affect some shop operators along those roads who were issued temporary allocations and expected to quit when development comes to such areas. “There is no form of compensation to the shop operators as they were issued temporary allocations which were not renewed this year.” “Several shops have been earmarked and owners given quit notice as stipulated by the law. It is 21 days notice before demolition under the first phase, subsequently other shops will be affected.” The director said the quit notice issued to over 100 shop operators by the authority were under the first phase, promising that other shops would be issued, subsequently, “to ensure that everyone gets a fair time to relocate.“ Health: There’ll be no corruption in use of N55bn BHCPF, Buhari assures Nigerians(Opens in a new browser tab) NAN reports that members of staff of the agency were seen earmarking and issuing quit notice to more shop owners at WAFF road.(NAN) Vanguard The demolition of the secretariat of a faction of All Progressives Congress (APC) was not politically motivated following reasons adduced by the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Agency (KAPSUDA) February 20, 2018 In "News" The Kaduna High Court on Monday fixed Nov. 24 and 25 for presentation of witnesses in a case against the Kaduna State Government over the demolition of a N17.7 million property. October 20, 2014 In "News" The lingering crisis in Kaduna State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, worsened yesterday after a building located in the heart of Kaduna city, belonging to a leader of one of the two factions, Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, was pulled down by the state government. February 21, 2018 In "Headlines"