Gov. David Umahi  of Ebonyi on Thursday, effected  minor cabinet reshuffle while appointing a new commissioner. Umahi made the disclosure during the weekly State Executive Council (EXCO) meeting, stating that Mr Uchenna Orji, Commissioner for Human Capital Development had become the new commissioner for Information and Orientation. “The commissioner for Education (Dr Stephen Odoh) moves to Human Capital Development while Dr Onyebuchi Chima, is the new Commissioner for Education. “Everything takes effect immediately and I will only urge you all to fear God,” he said. Just in: FG approves Ebonyi Int’l airport Project(Opens in a new browser tab) The governor also announced the appointment of Mr Chukwuma Ofoke, as a Special Assistant (SA) on Housing and Mrs Sharon Umahi as a member of the Abakaliki Capital Territory Development Board (ACTDB). In a related development, Dr Kenneth Ugbala, Secretary to the State Government (SSG) announced during the EXCO briefing that Mr Ken Uhuo, the sacked former Commissioner for Information had been reinstated as the Permanent Secretary of the ministry. He also announced that Dr Onyebuchi Chima, the new Commissioner  for Education took the slot of Ezza South Local Government Area (LGA) where Uhuo hails from. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Uhuo was the permanent secretary of the Information ministry before being appointed as a commissioner. The latest cabinet reshuffle was the second since the formation of the present Ebonyi Executive Council. (NAN) Vanguard Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi on Wednesday effected a minor cabinet reshuffle during the state Executive Council (EXCO) meeting. August 15, 2018 In "News" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi, on Tuesday effected a minor cabinet reshuffle that saw three commissioners in his cabinet swapping positions. June 5, 2018 In "News" Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has ordered the arrest of government officials from two warring communities in Ikwo Local Government Area for their alleged involvement in the crisis. March 8, 2018 In "News"