The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has advised the Federal Government to Enhance the capacity of the judiciary to apply existing legal mechanisms (e.g. Libel and Defamation) to misuse of social media. SERAP explained that social media has been a tool for disseminating information and engaging citizens and there are existing mechanisms to checkmate its abuse and provide redress. So, the Social Media Bill and Hate Speech Bill are unnecessary. Speaking in a Twitter interview (TweetChat) with Vanguard (#VanguardDiscuss) on the state of the nation, hate speech and social media bills Tuesday, the human right and accountability project organisation opined that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, since its second term, is characterised by “Disobedience to court orders, intolerance for critical views, three anti-freedom of expression bills; NGO Bill, Social Media Bill, Hate Speech Bill. The fact speaks for itself. “Social media has been a tool for disseminating information and engaging citizens and there are existing mechanisms to checkmate its abuse and provide redress. So, the Social Media Bill and Hate Speech Bill are unnecessary. “We advise the Federal Government to enhance the capacity of the judiciary to apply existing legal mechanisms (e.g. Libel and Defamation) to misuse of social media,” SERAP said. While lending its voice to the continued detention of the convener of RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, by the Department of State Service (DSS), SERAP said: “Disobedience to the order of the court is anti rule of law and a danger to democracy. The DSS is not above the law.” Vanguard Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the monitoring of Nigerians on social media. In an open letter, SERAP asked the President to use his good offices and leadership position to instruct the military authorities to immediately end any monitoring of activities of Nigerians… August 28, 2017 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, SERAP, has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the monitoring of Nigerians on social media. August 28, 2017 In "News" ABUJA — President Muhammadu Buhari, yesterday, distanced himself from the proposed Social Media Bill currently being debated in the Senate seeking to restrict Nigerians from “criticizing” political and public office holders. December 8, 2015 In "News"