THE Leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State has suspended the Chairman of the party in the Local Government, Mr Sunday Adogha, citing alleged handedness, gross misconduct and alienating APC members in the affairs of the party. Meantime, the Edo State APC has ratified the suspension of Adogha, saying that his suspension followed due process and fulfilled the required conditions stipulated by the constitution of the APC. The party stated this in a statement signed by the State Publicity Secretary, Mr Chris Azebamwan. However, according to a communique signed by Ogieh Samson (Assistant Secretary), Ibrahim Riwanu (Assistant Treasurer) and twenty other members of the Exco of the party in the LGA, it alleged that the conduct of the chairman has created disunity among party members and the LGA Exco and it has polarized the party. “The LGA has become an appendage of government through the active convenience of Sir Adogha contrary to all norms and practices. For reasons best known to him, he has moved the party secretariat from Agenebode to South Ibie Auchi which is the administrative headquarters of Etsako West. “With the above and many more not mentioned, we the members of the LGA Working Committee and other members of the Exco, do hereby state and pass a vote of no confidence on him and hereby pronounced him suspended as chairman of Etsako East Local Government Area of Edo State. Vanguard ETSAKO East Local Government Area of Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has been enmeshed in crisis commissioner nominee and other political positions' names to state governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki by leaders of the party in the area. March 8, 2017 In "News" By Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City The leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in ward 10, Etsako West local government area of Edo state passed a vote of confidence on the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole just as it suspended the chairman of the… November 14, 2019 In "News" BENIN—THE All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State has suspended a former governorship aspirant of the party, Mr Blessing Agbomhere, for allegedly dragging the party to court. April 10, 2017 In "News"