To provide stakeholders in the Nigerian payment system with information on how to maximise the boundless opportunities it presents, E-payment Company, Global Accelerex, is set to host its 7th edition of PoS Innovation Summit Wednesday, in Lagos. Pay 13% derivation directly to oil bearing communities, Delta Ijaw people tell Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) The summit has the theme: ‘The African Continental Free Trade Agreement: Driving Borderless Trade through Fintech.’ According the company, the event seeks to highlight how AfCFTA can change the future of digital payments across Africa and provide stakeholders in the Nigerian payment system with information on how to maximise the boundless opportunities it presents. Managing Director of the company, Tunde Ogungbade, said that the summit couldn’t have come at a more opportune time as AfCFTA is expected to boost intra-African trade significantly, making Africa a single market of 1.2 billion people and a cumulative GDP of over $3 trillion. Ogungbade said: “AfCFTA provides a framework for trade liberalisation in goods and services. With this liberalisation comes an overarching need for trade settlements across different African countries, making payment an integral part of the process. “It therefore behoves digital payment companies to design innovative payment platforms and solutions that will facilitate these trade activities. Global Accelerex is already taking the lead in this regard and some of our innovative products will be hitting the market soon.” Experts to x-ray Nigeria’s economic, equity outlook at invest 2020 summit(Opens in a new browser tab) Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Niyi Adebayo, will be featured as a special guest of honour while acclaimed speakers and guest panelists have also been lined up for the summit. Vanguard Abuja, October 8, 2019 – Ecobank has advocated that Nigeria takes the lead and positions itself to get optimum benefits from the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). According to the bank, Nigeria undoubtedly has the largest and most vigorous economy in Africa and therefore must position… October 9, 2019 In "Business" Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, MAN; Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, LCCI; and other stakeholders, yesterday, concurred with the committee set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to asses the impact and Nigeria’s readiness to sign African Continental Free Trade Agreement, AfCFTA. June 28, 2019 In "News" Participants at the Policy Dialogue of African Business Associations on Implementing the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) on Thursday called for the establishment of an African Business Council. The Policy Dialogue was co-organised by the African Union (AU), African Development Bank Group (AfDB) and the Coalition for Dialogue on… November 29, 2019 In "Business"