A member of the House of Representatives, Honourable Wumi Ogunlola has dismissed the insinuations making the rounds that the 9th National Assembly was a rubber stamp, clarifying that not all requests from President Muhammadu Buhari were approved by the legislature. The lawmaker, who represents Ekiti Central Constituency II noted that they were elected to represent the interest of their constituents and to make laws that will bring about good governance, adding that both arms of government must operate in an atmosphere of peace for the country to witness all development. Speaking with Journalists in Ijero-Ekiti on Sunday, Ogunlola explained that Nigerians must not assess the performance of the National Assembly with the number of times they disagreed with the president rather their interventions and the quality of laws they made. According to the All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmaker, “I don’t think all that come to the National Assembly from the executive is approved, that is not correct. If you knew what they brought and what was given back to them, either reducing or adding to them , it wasn’t the same thing, in other words, it means some steps were talking by the National Assembly. “I want to believe that it is in peace that we can really forge ahead, it is not when we are at loggerheads and fighting. I think it is the media that believe that it’s until when you fight or when you disagree, that is when you are really playing politics or administering government, whereas it is not. “It’s when we are at peace, that we can sort out things, that we can agree and have meetings of the mind, I want to break what the speaker said to mean, “It is not when we fight that we can keep executives on their toes. It is not as if we don’t disagree, maybe at times, it is not open to you. “If we have misunderstood, there would always be a roundtable talk to forge ahead. The word ‘Rubber Stamp’ is a journalistic language.” While expressing displeasure over the low representation of women in leadership positions, she called for re-orientation of women folks across the country on the need for them to show interest in politics. ” As a result of the oppressive nature of men, women are not being given the privilege, this is somehow, most especially for some of us who have been privileged to be in small position of authority. Things have not really changed, in fact, it’s retrogressing when it comes to representation, women are not being given the numbers they should be given either in the elective or appointment. ” For instance, the time we used to complain of this, then at the National Assembly, we had over 20 per cent, but now, it’s zero points. In the Senate, we have  6, House of Representatives is 12. It’s unfortunate and absurd, especially when we compare it to other countries. “We can only hope and pray, that is the only solace. When efforts failed, normal thing is to resort to prayer,” she said. She assured members of her constituents her determination to sponsor motions and bills in the new year that would enhance the socio-economic lives of the Constituency. Vanguard News Nigeria. It was a serious lamentation and expression of displeasure by President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday before signing the approved N9.1 trillion Appropriation Bill into law. June 22, 2018 In "News" ABUJA—INSTEAD of blaming lawmakers for delaying passage of budgets and thereby delaying execution of projects, some members of the National Assembly have advised President Muhammadu Buhari and the Executive Arm of government to follow due process and present budget proposals on time. November 6, 2018 In "News" The Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan, on Monday declared that Nigerians will determine the fate of the controversial bill. Lawan also insisted that the 9th Senate and indeed the National Assembly should be judged by its actions and inactions. The Senate President made the declaration at a media parley in… December 16, 2019 In "News"