Cardi B and Offset‘s tumultuous relationship made headlines after the “Bodak Yellow” rapper called him out for cheating on her. But the couple, who are now parents to 17-month-old daughter Kulture, managed to work through all of their issues by talking to each other and getting help. “When me and my husband got into our issues you know, he cheated and everything and I decided to stay with him and work together with him, a lot of people were so mad at me; a lot of women felt disappointed in me,” she recalled to Vogue for her and Kulture’s cover story. “But it’s real-life s–t. If you love somebody and you stop being with them, and your depressed and social media is telling you not to talk to that person because he cheated, you’re not really happy on the inside until you have the conversation.” The star continued, “Then if you get back with them, it’s like, how could you? You let all of us down. People that be in marriages for years, when they say till death do us part, they not talking about little arguments like if you leave the fridge open. That’s including everything.” Cardi, 27, and Offset, 27, temporarily split five months after secretly tying the knot in September 2017. The Migos rapper publicly begged for her forgiveness, which she eventually gave. “My thing is,” Cardi continued, “everybody on social media acts like relationships is perfect. And that’s crazy to me. I’m around so many women, and there’s always a woman talking about how she loves her man, but her man is not financially stable, or she has a problem with his mom, or the sex is not as good anymore. Everybody has issues.” Though Cardi maintained that monogamy is “the only way,” she was able to move past his infidelity with the help of priests. “I believe in forgiveness. I prayed on it. Me and my husband, we prayed on it. We had priests come to us. And we just came to an understanding like bro, it’s really us against the world,” she shared. “He has my back for everything, I have his back for everything, so when you cheat, you’re betraying the person that has your back the most. Why would you do that? We have come to a clear understanding. For me, monogamy is the only way. “I’ll beat your ass if you cheat on me.” It also appears that she will “beat” the asses of those who are complicit in any of Offset’s infidelities, as Cardi stands accused of plotting an attack on a woman who she thought slept with her husband. She pleaded not guilty. Source: PageSix Vanguard News Red-hot rap queen Cardi B is working to quash controversy over resurfaced footage in which she admits to drugging and robbing men, pointing to "limited options" in her days as a stripper. March 27, 2019 In "Music" Fast-rising rapper Cardi B on Monday topped nominations at the MTV Video Music Awards, where Jay-Z and Beyonce's ornate work shot at the Louvre and the politically charged "This is America" also enjoyed recognition. July 16, 2018 In "Music" US rapper Cardi B surrendered to police in New York on Monday, charged with assault and reckless endangerment over an ugly brawl in a strip club that injured a female employee. October 3, 2018 In "Music"