Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday declared 2019 as a very successful year for the nation, thanking Nigerians for believing in him and supporting his administration to take Nigeria to the Next Level. President Buhari while receiving the residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) led by the Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, during the traditional Christmas Day homage, at the State House, Abuja said, he hopes history will be kind to him. He also reassured Nigerians that he was conscious of his duty as president. ‘‘I swore to hold this office in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and God willing, I will follow the system diligently to the end of my term and I hope history will be kind to me and Nigerians.’’ ‘‘We thank God. It has been a very successful year, relative to the composition of this country, both politically and ethnically,’’ he said. The president told the delegation, comprising religious, traditional and political leaders as well top civil servants and members of the press: ‘‘You are our eyes and ears, we have to listen to you and I hope you are encouraging your constituencies that this leadership means well and is concerned about them.’’ He reiterated that his administration would continue to do the utmost best to effectively utilise national resources to rebuild the country. Buhari recounted that the extreme infrastructure deficit inherited by his administration was worsened by the volatility in the oil market and the activities of militants in the Niger Delta. He, however, expressed confidence that in the last four years the federal government had recorded sustainable progress in mobilising resources to rebuild infrastructure across the country. ‘‘This administration sincerely believes that if you get infrastructure right, most Nigerians will mind their own businesses. They may not even care who is in government. ‘‘But when you deny them infrastructural facilities then there is nothing they can do. ‘‘But I can assure you that I thank Nigerians very much from the bottom of my heart. ‘‘When I travelled to all the 36 states before the elections, what I personally observed and the number of Nigerians that turned up in every state to see and listen to me, are more than what anybody can pay or force. ‘‘What I saw made me believe that the majority of Nigerians understand and sympathise with me,’’ he said. The president also reassured Nigerians that he was conscious of his duty as president, saying: ‘‘I swore to hold this office in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and God willing, I will follow the system diligently to the end of my term and I hope history will be kind to me and Nigerians.’’ In his remarks, the host Minister said the Christmas Day homage presented an opportunity for FCT residents to thank the president for his unwavering support. While acknowledging the support of security agencies in the country, Bello said FCT had enjoyed relative peace because of their collaboration. He promised that his administration would continue to work hard to make the city safe, secure and open to all Nigerians. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the highpoint of the event was the presentation of Christmas cards to the president by the FCT Community and State House Chapel. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday declared 2019 as a very successful year for the nation, thanking Nigerians for believing in him and supporting his administration to take Nigeria to the Next Level. December 25, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki and the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, yesterday, preached peace and love as Christians all over the world today celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ. December 25, 2015 In "Headlines" President Muhammadu Buhari in his second personally signed message to Nigerians on Christmas eve has enjoined the citizens to pray to God and seek divine guidance to enable the nation surmount its challenges. December 24, 2016 In "News"