Lionel Messi has admitted to voting for Liverpool forward Sadio Mane in The Best poll and feels the Senegalese was unfortunate to finish fourth behind himself, Virgil van Dijk and Cristiano Ronaldo in the Ballon d’Or vote. An Argentine superstar on the books at Barcelona has been recognised as the finest player on the planet for 2019. Messi has added a sixth Golden Ball to his remarkable collection , with Van Dijk edged out for the second time this year. The Liverpool defender also missed out on the FIFA Best prize , with Messi claiming that honour for the first time in his career. The exploits of those at Anfield across the last 12 months have helped to put their leading lights in contention for the most prestigious personal accolades. Mane slips seamlessly into that talent bracket, with the in-form winger having claimed a share of the Premier League Golden Boot in 2018-19. He also helped the Reds to Champions League glory, while they are now back in the hunt for an elusive Premier League title. Messi is among those to have paid homage to the efforts of Mane and Co, with the South American icon claiming that only remarkable standards being set around the globe prevented star turns at Anfield from receiving even greater recognition. Quizzed by Canal+ Sport Africa on his Best vote for Mane and the final standings in the Ballon d’Or, Messi said: “It’s a shame to see Mane finish in fourth place. “But I think there have been a lot of great players this year. That’s why it was difficult to choose a particular player. But I chose Sadio Mane (for The Best award) because he’s a player that I like. “Mane achieved a great year that was exceptional for the entire Liverpool team. That’s why I chose him Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Liverpool surged eight points clear at the top of the Premier League as Divock Origi was the scourge of Everton once more in a thrilling 5-2 Merseyside derby win for the European champions at Anfield. All but one of the goals came before half-time as Origi and Xherdan Shaqiri, who… December 4, 2019 In "News" Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Virgil van Dijk are expected to be among the 30 nominees for the 2019 Ballon d'Or as they contest for the crown of best player in the world. Barcelona captain Messi is in the hunt for his sixth Ballon d'Or, having last won the accolade… December 2, 2019 In "Sports" Eden Hazard has backed one of Liverpool trio Sadio Mane, Mohamed Salah or Virgil van Dijk to win this year's Ballon d'Or. The Reds stars are contenders to be named the world's best player in 2019 after winning the Champions League and finishing second in the Premier League. However, they… November 24, 2019 In "Sports"