Investdata Consulting Ltd will on Saturday, December 7, 2019, hold its yearly edition of its summit where investors and analysts will review this year’s equity market and the dynamics and trading opportunities in the equity market and Nigerian economy in 2020 and beyond. At the summit, which will cost N25, 000 each, participants will learn from some of the best professionals in the market; and share trading ideas and investment opportunity/strategies. In a statement,   Ambrose Omordion, Chief Research Officer, InvestData Consulting Ltd, described Invest 2020 Summit as a practical session, “where investors and traders are exposed to opportunities and trade ideas to rebuild their portfolios after the prolonged down market. New entrants will also be able take advantage of the expected mark-up to grow their capital and income. At the seminar, participants will also learn about stocks with high upside potentials as they position early ahead of the major earnings season in Nigerian stock market.” He assured that participants will leave this year’s edition of the annual traders & investors’ summit with 10 golden stocks for 2020 investment with profit target of 40 percent and more in 150 days. Vanguard Mrs. Toyin Sanni, Group Chief Executive of Emerging Market Limited has urged investors to take position in undervalued securities in the bearish market, just as she blamed the bear run on equities market on the current political uncertainties ahead of next year’s general elections. December 17, 2018 In "Business" REAL estate experts and stakeholders are set to brainstorm at the sixth edition of Real Estate Unite scheduled to hold between October 23 and 24, 2017 at Eko Hotel, Lagos. The theme of the two-day event organised by 3Invest, is Africa’s Real Estate: What is New? October 17, 2017 In "Homes & Property" The journey to Africa’s infrastructure sufficiency is certainly not a day’s job. But if the insights, suggestions, and opportunities flowing from the summit are taken advantage of, Africa, especially Nigeria, may well be on its way to acquiring infrastructural capacity needed to stimulate the much-needed socio-economic transformation October 15, 2016 In "Business"