The Adamawa Government is to pay the West African Examination Council (WAEC) and National Examination Council (NECO) examinations fees for all Senior Secondary School (SSS) students in the state. Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri made this promise while addressing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supporters at a rally on Thursday in Yola. The campaign rally was organised for the forthcoming Local Government poll slated for Dec. 7, 2019. The governor said his administration declared free primary and secondary education, as both levels of education remained compulsory for every child in the state. “Government is going to pay WAEC and NECO examinations fees for our students, who are sitting for the examinations. “I have directed the Commissioner for Education to meet with the coordinators of the examination bodies in the state for the modalities of registration and payment of the fees. “Also, we have resumed fully for our boarding secondary schools feeding programme, ” Fintiri said. He told the party supporters that the PDP-led administration in the state had granted full autonomy to all the 21 Local Government Areas as well as improved security provisions. The governor said the state government had recently awarded the construction of 280 kilometres f roads in seven council areas and renovated many primary and secondary schools across the state. Fintiri, however, called on the opposition to join hands with the PDP-led administration to develop the state. vanguard The Niger State Government says it will continue to pay fees for students writing the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) in the state. February 27, 2017 In "News" Parents of students and candidates of public secondary schools in Borno State are now in a dilemma as West African Examination Council, WAEC, and National Examinations Council, NECO, have refused to release the results of those that sat for 2017 editions due the failure of the state government to pay… September 14, 2017 In "News" Kogi House of Assembly on Thursday called for abolition of the Transition Examination from Junior Secondary School (JSS) to Senior Secondary School (SSS) classes in schools across the state. October 6, 2016 In "News"