Nollywood actor Gbenro Ajibade has refuted claims that he got married to fellow actor, Osas Ighodaro for a green card. Gbenro who was a guest on Rubbing Minds with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, a programme on Channels TV, revealed they are currently divorced. New ladies-man: Nollywood actor Mandinga Perikles releases new portraits(Opens in a new browser tab) According to him, he wouldn’t have gone through all the various processes of getting married to his ex-wife who is an American citizen just to get a blue passport. “Well, I know some people believed the marriage was arranged by me, so I can get a blue passport (American passport). But everyone is entitled to their opinions. They believed I have gotten what I wanted and opted out of the marriage. We were married for four years and now officially divorced. If it was about the passport, believe me I wouldn’t go through all that process. Did traditional marriage, involved families, had a white wedding in New York. Do you know how much I spent? So, my intentions were way above the passport and all of that…” Speculations about their marriage crisis hit the Internet after Gbenro dragged Osas on Instagram over her parental skills. Recall that in February this year, Gbenro took to his Instagram handle to call out Osas, accusing her of neglecting their child a number of times so she can be out all night partying and hanging out with friends. Alibaba raises up to $12.9 billion in landmark Hong Kong listing(Opens in a new browser tab) In the interview with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, Gbenro revealed they are fully divorced and are co-parenting. When asked what is the situation with his marriage to Osas, he replied “We are not together anymore”. The couple had their wedding in New York in July 2015 and welcomed their child, Azariah, in 2016. Vanguard Two of Nollywood’s finest actors, Gbenro Ajibade and Rahama Sadau, have been unveiled as hosts of the 2017 Best of Nollywood Awards holding on Saturday, December 16, in Abeokuta, Ogun State. The duo would direct affairs at Nollywood’s most prestigious reward platform being hosted this year by Ogun Sate government.… September 23, 2017 In "Home Video People" Unlike the previous years where the industry was plunged into controversies, the year 2015 was a different story. January 9, 2016 In "Home Video People" A renowned Nigerian musician, Bankole Wellington known as Banky W took time out to celebrate marriages in just released visuals for his new song “Running after U’’, which featured Nonso Amadi. August 10, 2018 In "Entertainment"