Prof. Sherifdeen Tella, a Senior Economist at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, Ogun, on Sunday called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to enforce its new guidelines on ATM/electronic transfer charges. Tella told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Lagos that appropriate enlightenment campaign should also be carried out to inform bank customers of their rights. NAN reports that the CBN on Sunday released new guidelines on bank charges. The guideline reviewed downward electronic transfer and ATM charges as well as card maintenance fees. According to the Apex bank,  bank customers will now pay N10 for electronic transfers below N5,000, and N25 for electronic transfer between N5,000 and N50,000. Only electronic transfer above N50,000 will attract N50 charge. Previously, bank customers pay N50 charge for electronic transfers below N500,000. The guide also slashed charges for cash withdrawal via Other bank’s ATM to “maximum of N35 after the third withdrawal within the same month” from “N65 after the third withdrawal within the same month”. The CBN also removed Card Maintenance Fee (CAMF) on all cards linked to current accounts, a maximum of one Naira per mille for customer induced debit transactions to third parties and transfers or lodgments to the customers’ account in other banks on current accounts only. The don noted that the development was a positive one as some commercial banks were in the habit of charging N65 even at a single transaction. According to him, the previous charges by banks have discouraged many customers from opening a current account or using the ATMs of other Banks. vanguard By Babajide Komoloafe The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has reviewed downward electronic transfer and ATM fees as well as card maintenance fees. The new charges were contained in the latest Guide to Charges by Banks and Other Financial Institutions just released by the CBN According to the CBN, bank… December 22, 2019 In "Business" Bank customers will not pay charges for using Point of Sale (PoS) machines, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said. January 23, 2012 In "Finance" The revision of charges in the banking sector by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), to many entrepreneurs doing business in Nigeria, is a welcome development. The charges revision was sequel to the complaints from depositors about what they described as arbitrary charges on banking services. July 29, 2012 In "Business"