VITAFOAM Nigeria Plc has ascribed its good financial performance to the commitment of its key distributors, sub dealers, comfort centre operators, business partners and other stakeholders, just as it foresees brighter future for its markets. Fayemi presents N124bn budget for 2020 to Assembly(Opens in a new browser tab) The company posted Profit After Tax, PAT, of N1.14 billion in the third quarter 2019, Q3’19, an increase of 121 percent over N515 million recorded in the preceding year. Consequently, market observers were quick to state that the company would announce higher profitability for the financial year. Addressing the company’s stakeholders at its National Distributors’ Award in Lagos, the Group Managing Director, Mr. Taiwo Adeniyi explained that the symbiotic relationship between the company and its stakeholders enhanced a winning formular at the root of Vitafoam’s consistent dominance of the market after almost six decades of existence. He said: “I feel greatly delighted to acknowledge the sterling accomplishments of these partners, many of whom have remained with the company through thick and thin. We foresee brighter future for our markets. Together, we have crossed oceans, moved boundaries, broken barriers and raised the industry bar. It is indeed gratifying to state that the symbiotic relationship we share has enabled the company to orchestrate a winning formular that is at the root of Vitafaom’s consistent dominance of the market after almost six decades in business. Equity market sustains bearish trend as NSE Index down by 0.2%(Opens in a new browser tab) “Besides being at the frontline of ensuring availability of our products to the final consumers, these trade partners have also played significant role of ensuring that we remain at the top of the game by way of superior products offerings through constructive feedback and genuine criticisms. If business is really a war, these brave men and women have demonstrated gallantry and courage expected of a winning infantry.” Vanguard Despite the harsh operating environment, Vitafoam Nigeria Plc has proposed a dividend of N246 million, translating into 30 kobo per share in addition to a bonus share of one for every five Ordinary Shares held by each shareholder as rewards from the company’s outstanding performance in its current (2014) financial… May 15, 2015 In "Business" As a strategic move to boost our working capital and sustain competitive edge we secured a four-year N2 billion soft loan from the Bank of Industry (BOI) at concessionary interest rate. We could not go to the capital market because the market lacked liquidity due to the economic recession in… January 29, 2018 In "Business" By Michael Eboh Vitafoam Plc has concluded plans to diversify into key sectors of the economy, declaring that it has expanded its operations to Ghana, while plans are in top gear to open shop in Sierra Leone. The company has also concluded arrangements to reward its customers and key distributors… December 9, 2009 In "Business"