The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) has appealed for the intervention of the federal government to recover the landed property designated for its corporate headquarters. EFCC arrests Kwara director, interrogates rtd. navy commandore over alleged fraud Executive Secretary, FRC,  Daniel  Asapokhai made this appeal during  the a  visit to  the Minister of FCT, Mallam Muhammad Bello, saying that the Council had not been able to carry out any meaningful development on the disputed landed property due to the activities of squatters. He said unlike many of the agencies of the Federal Government, the Council operates primarily from Lagos. Speaking further, he said, “There is a matter we have been pursuing for a long time and then, we have been following our petition with the Federal Government that in 2015, there was an approval for us to get a landed property in Abuja to able to build our headquarters “Through your ministry, we were granted a landed property in Guzape and it is 10,000sq metres. Unfortunately, since that 2015 that we were granted Certificate of Occupancy, we have not been able to embark on any development work as a result of the squatters. FG should apologize to Gov. Ortom now – Middle Belt group Responding, the Minister of FCT, Mallam Muhammad Bello, promised to look into the matter and bring the dispute to a quick end. Vanguard The Financial Reporting Council, FRC, has called for the enactment of a financial management law that will compel the federal and state governments to present financial statement. November 27, 2012 In "Business" Financial Reporting Council, FRC readiness test for the implementation of the International Finance Reporting Standard, IFRS, has revealed widespread non-compliance among public and private organisations. February 20, 2014 In "Business" The Investigative Panel of the Financial Reporting Council, that is probing financial accounts of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, between 2011 and 2012, has suspended further hearing in the matter following an order by a Federal High Court Lagos stopping the panel. March 28, 2014 In "News"