The National Chairman of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Adams Oshimhole, has revealed that it was on his own volition that he stayed away from the rally in Benin City, the Edo State capital. Oshiomhole explained that he did not want the enemies of the party to take advantage of the situation to cause mayhem The party had planned to use the field of a private school in the city, Garrick Memorial college for the rally to welcome lze lyamu, but the government banned political rallies in the state and warned that any private school that flouted the ban would have its certificate of occupancy revoked. The inspector General of police also directed the Edo police command to ensure that the rally did not hold owing to pockets of the demonstration by some youths on Thursday in Benin against the event. But yesterday, Organisers of the event shifted it to the GRA Benin residence of Ize Iyamu. The event held amid singing and dancing by his supporters from the 18 local government areas of the state. APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who arrived Benin on Thursday for the rally, stayed away. He said he didn’t want those opposed to the rally to capitalize on his presence to cause mayhem. He said he stayed away on his own volition. However, the state government, through Mr Crusoe Osagie, the media adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki, said in a press statement that the rally flopped and that Oshiomhole was placed under arrest. But Oshiomhole said it was clear that those opposed to the rally planned to cause mayhem and then blame it on him. “To forestall their evil plan, the event was moved to Ize Iyamu’s residence and l stayed away. It held peacefully” “The huge crowd at the event attests to its success,” Oshiomhole said. Vanguard Anyone who entered the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium Benin-City, last Thursday, for the rally of Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of yesterday’s local government elections, will know that the party, under the leadership of the immediate past governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is not taking anything for… March 3, 2018 In "News" ABUJA-THE Inspector - General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu has approved the suspension of the planned rally by a faction of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State to forestall any breakdown of law and order. December 12, 2019 In "News" Benin-City You could see through the tension in Edo State last Thursday when the major combating political parties waited anxiously to hear the final announcement from the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, on whether the governorship election, scheduled for yesterday, could hold. The tension was quite high, particularly when supporters… September 11, 2016 In "Edo election 2016"