The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has ordered the police to fish out those responsible for the death of Mr Dotun Kosedake. Kosedake was shot dead by a yet to be identified gunmen in Ikere-Ekiti during Saturday’s local government election in the state. The Governor, in a statement, on Sunday night, by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, however, expressed satisfaction at the general conduct of the election. He congratulated all APC members that were newly elected Chairmen and Councillors of the 16 local government councils. This followed official announcement of all results of Saturday’s council election by the State Independent Electoral Commission, which the ruling APC won. The Governor commiserated with the family of Mr Dotun Kosedake, who was killed in the fracas that took place in Ikere-Ekiti, on the day of the election. He called on police authorities in the state to get to the roots of what actually transpired with a view to bringing the culprits to book. ” While the election was largely peaceful, the incident in Ikere was, however, a sour point ” We commiserate with the family of the deceased, even as I have directed the police in the state to investigate what actually transpired and bring the perpetrators to book”, he said. He lauded the professionalism of the EKSIEC officials under the leadership of Justice Jide Aladejana, saying that the hitch-free nature of the election was a reflection of their professional conduct. Fayemi said he was particularly impressed the election held under a peaceful atmosphere as voters and SIEC officials conducted themselves in orderly manners. While congratulating the newly elected council chiefs, the Governor urged them to see their election as a call to serve, adding that they cannot afford to disappoint those who voted for them. He reminded them of his administration’s zero-tolerance for corruption and mediocrity, adding that it is no longer business as usual in the councils. According to Fayemi, “I congratulate the good people of Ekiti State, for demonstrating their peaceful nature and love for democracy during Saturday’s council poll ” The professionalism of SIEC under the leadership of Justice Jide Aladejana is also commendable “I also congratulate and welcome on board, all our newly elected chairmen and councillors ” I urge them to see their election as a call to serve and should do their best not to disappoint the people that voted for them. “ They should be guided by the fact that our administration has zero-tolerance for corruption  and it is certainly not going to be business as usual in our councils this time around “While the election was largely peaceful, the incident in Ikere was, however, a sour point “We commiserate with the family of the deceased, even as I have directed the police in the state to investigate what actually transpired and bring the perpetrators to book”, the statement added.] Vanguard Nigeria News Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti has directed the police to fish out the killers of one Dotun Kosedake who was shot during Saturday’s local government election in the state. The governor gave the directive in a statement issued on Sunday night in Ado-Ekiti by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka… December 8, 2019 In "News" The State chapter of the Peoples' Democratic Party, Barr. Adegboyega Oguntuase has rejected the results of the election, calling for outright cancellation. Oguntuase who made this known while addressing journalist in Ado-Ekiti on Sunday said the election was a 'mere jamboree' as it fails to meet the minimum standard, describing… December 8, 2019 In "News" ADO-EKITI—CANDIDATES of the All Progressives Congress, APC, have cleared the 16 Chairmanship seats in the local government election conducted in Ekiti State on Saturday. December 9, 2019 In "News"