Despite the huge benefits attached to having a business online, most small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, are yet to explore this opportunity, thereby wallowing in darkness regarding the benefits. Fidelity Bank to fund SMEs with N12 million grants(Opens in a new browser tab) To bridge this gap, Web hosting provider, Whogohost, has announced its sponsorship of the ‘Make Money Online SME Clinic’ at the Computer Village Expo 2019. The Computer Village Expo 2019 holding in December 10-14 at Ikeja GRA is with the theme: ‘A New Partnership Agenda for Growth,’ the SMEs will be trained on ways their products can begin to yield them money online. The summit is annual flagship integrated events platforms that will connect more than 10,000 technology SMEs from Nigeria’s largest technology market, Ikeja Computer Village, and consumer technology buyers across Nigeria, Africa and beyond. WhoGoHost’s CEO, Mr. Toba Obaniyi, said during ‘Make Money Online SME Clinic’, the company will be sharing insights on how SMEs in Ikeja Computer Village and other participants can expand their reach online which will help them grow their customer base and eventually revenue. He said the SMEs will also offer their diverse range of value offerings to prospective partners, showing off ways that they can make money as resellers. CEED, China collaborate to boost SMEs productivity(Opens in a new browser tab) Obaniyi added: “We operate with the goal of enabling Nigerian SMEs grow online effectively with very minimal financial investment through the deployment of beautiful, functional and mobile-friendly websites which are hosted on their web hosting infrastructure providing small businesses in Nigeria with a cost-effective way of expanding their brand awareness and sales revenue through their native online platforms.” Vanguard EFFORT to make small and medium-sized enterprises,SMEs, to be more productive in the knowledge economy has started yielding the expected result as MainOne in partnership with Microsoft has launched a new product offering, SME-in- a-Box Pro targeted at enabling small and medium businesses in Nigeria. December 28, 2016 In "News" There appears to be bail out for Small and Medium Scale Enterprise, SMEs, to scale up on their IT infrastructure , as a leading provider of industry specific Point of Sales (POS) and accounting management solutions in the country, Beta Computers Limited, has introduced a new program called POSACTSaaS. This… April 5, 2017 In "Technology" Experts have proved that in Nigeria, and indeed across the world, Small and Medium scale Enterprises, SMEs, are the lifeblood of any economy. What is even a more obvious fact is that the world today is a global village powered by Information and Communications Technologies, ICTs. In this era of… June 10, 2015 In "News"