The Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, said on Monday Nigeria has the capacity to produce industrial machine spare parts including those of aircraft through Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu. Onu stated this during the inauguration of projects at the Projects Development Institute (PRODA). The minister said it was gratifying that the institute had come alive to contribute to the diversification mantra of the Federal Government. He said: “I have seen the progress so far made in this institute but we want them to do more. We want PRODA to be a centre of excellence.” The minister expressed happiness with the induction furnace project of the institute which has the capacity to produce industrial machines and aircraft spare parts. He said with the two furnaces, the institute could produce non-ferrous materials including aluminum and stainless steel. He also challenged the institute to continue its research on the production of lithium batteries with a view to commercialising the findings. On the pencil production project of the institute, Onu said he was satisfied that production had finally started on the project. “We have all seen pencils produced by PRODA and this effort is quite commendable,” he said. The minister challenged PRODA to research into the production of all forms of pencils, including beautification pencils. He, however, said the government was not interested in the institute producing pencils in commercial quantities but for them to transfer their research findings to Nigerians. (NAN)  Vanguard The Federal Government has commenced the installation of equipment and machines for the proposed pencil factory at the Projects Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu. August 31, 2019 In "News" By Emmanuel Elebeke The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, says the ministry has the capacity to generate about 3.4 million jobs in 2016 through pencil production at Project Development Institute (PRODA) in Enugu State and the cassava flour project at Federal Institute of Research (FIRO) in Oshodi,… January 7, 2016 In "News" The Bank of Industry has approved the Projects Development Institute (PRODA) Enugu as one of the technology centres to fabricate and provide equipment to beneficiaries of its N5 billion Cottage Agro Processing Fund. November 7, 2014 In "News"