Members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS) have described the ongoing border closure as a temporary solution to a long term problem, noting that policy measures and proper implementation is necessary and more effective. Young entrepreneur advises state govts to take agricultural sector serious Disclosing this at the Commerce and Industry Correspondents Association of Nigeria (CICAN) End of Year Workshop/Retreat with the theme: “Impact of Border closure on the Real Sector Business: Way forward in 2020.”, members of the real sector noted that though, rice farmers are smiling to the banks, the situation has brought hardship to the citizens. Managing Director of NISPO, Mr. Afam Ukatu, who is also the National Chairman of the Non-Metallic Mining Group of MAN, said: “Why should the Customs be waiting for border closure pronouncement of the executive before they take stringent steps to checking smuggling? Border closure is not a solution, what we need is a proper policy instrument that will check and track illicit trade perpetrators.” Buffers against the emerging inflation “There is no country in the world that exists in isolation, but strong and adequate policies are put in place and also enforced in the proper manner. For instance, the Chinese has several scanners at its land borders and numerous check points that would not allow illicit trade to thrive. Vanguard By Henry Umoru, Abuja The closure of all Land Borders in the Country by the Federal Government did not go down well with the Senators as they were yesterday sharply divided. When the issue came at the hallowed chamber during plenary, Senators, however, expressed divergent views, maintaining different positions, just… September 25, 2019 In "News" Apex bank wants FG to sustain border closure By Emeka Anaeto and Babajide Komolafe The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), yesterday disagreed with the position of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on the impact of the foreign exchange (Forex) restrictions on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflow into the country. CBN… October 21, 2019 In "Business" By Ismaila Chafe, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari says the closure of Nigerian land borders for a limited period due to massive smuggling was already yielding a positive result for the economy.   The president stated this when he received a delegation from the Nigerian Association for Chamber of Commerce, Industry,… September 20, 2019 In "News"