Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has advised the Federal government to revitalise the country’s four ailing refineries  so that  the nation will  gain from the input of their productivities by saving more foreign currencies and  creating more jobs. Ex-agitators rebuff Buhari sack of NDDC board, retaining interim mgt According to him, ”It is a shame that in spite of Nigeria having four refineries controlled by NNPC, none of them is producing fuel either for internal consumption or exportation for commercial gains, while at the same time the Federal Government is eager for  the take off  a private refinery where it is expected to save $10bn from importation of oil. He alleged that NNPC’s approach to oil sales suffers from high corruption risks and fails to maximize returns for the nation, adding that since inception, the corporation has neither developed its own commercial or operational capacities, nor facilitated the growth of the sector through external investment. “ Instead, it has spun a legacy of inefficiency and mismanagement. Its faults have been described by a number of reports, many commissioned by government itself. Despite NNPC’s debilitating consumption of public revenues and performance failures, successive governments have done little to reform the company,” he argued. Onuesoke who insisted that the Federal Government should scrap or take its hands off the management of the four refineries hence the nation is not benefitting from its activities, he said. “Nigeria has four refineries and none is refining crude oil. Government still pays a huge sum on importing finished oil products with the payment of  huge subsidy. Budget support facility: Deductions ongoing — Finance Minister “NNPC and her other subsidiaries are responsible for almost 15 per cent of the Federal Government’s yearly salaries and wages annually. There is no need for NNPC to exist if our refineries are not working. People established business to make gains as already being expected from  Dangote Refinery and loses. Vanguard By Ephraim Oseji Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has called for the scrapping of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and privatisation of other agencies under it for failing to revive the nation’s four refineries. According to Onuesoke, NPPC is an agency of government lacking credibility and… November 24, 2019 In "News" A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has urged the Federal Government to extend border closure restriction to livestock and refined petroleum products. November 16, 2019 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, Chief Sunny Onuesoke has advised that it is time for the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency consider the peoples call for the restructuring of Nigeria. April 19, 2019 In "News"