Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, has dismissed claims by the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, that Christians were not under any form persecuted in the country, saying the monarch was insincere in his remarks. The umbrella Christian body had backed the recent classification of Nigeria as a nation that tolerates religious persecution. But, the Sultan of Sokoto while speaking at the closing ceremony of the 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course in Kano, expressed shock at CAN’s position. He said if such persecution really exists, it was supposed to have been tabled at the Interfaith Forum which he co-chairs with the CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle. However, speaking in a chat with Vanguard on Thursday, Vice Chairman of CAN (Northern Region), Rev. John Hayab, said it was unfortunate that the monarch was not ready to face the reality on ground in the nation. According to him, evidence which point to religious persecution as the basis for the imbalance of political and economic power in the country abound, especially in the north. Hayab also accused the revered Muslim leader of treating the multiple petitions on religious persecution tabled before the revered Muslim leader at meetings of the Nigerian Interreligious Council, NIREC with indifference. He said: “With all due respect, we believe the Muslim leader is living in denial on the issue of persecution of Christians in this country. “We have presented several petitions before the Sultan of Sokoto on religious persecution but what has he done? “We brought to his notice in NIREC; the issue of ban on the teaching of Christian Religious Knowledge in secondary schools in the north. What did he do? “We also presented before him cases where Christians who want to buy land in some northern communities are compelled to sign documents stating that they would not use the property for church activities or for hotel services. What has he done about it? “Even the very act of comparing church activities with hotel services is not just a form of persecution but an insult aimed at Christian. “Is it the issue of cabinet appointments in state executive councils? There are Christians and Muslims among the Fulanis, the Hausas and other minority tribes in the North. But, how many governors can boast of cabinets that are fair and balanced in terms of religious representation? Is the Sultan not aware of the nepotism? “Similar religious nepotism is also witnessed in the offer of state jobs, admissions into tertiary institutions, and awards of contracts. Does the Sultan of Sokoto not consider these happenings as religious persecution? “Was he not aware that Leah Sharibu’s was not negotiated by the Federal Government on account of her refusal to renounce her Christian faith? Whereas, the same government activated all its diplomatic resources to ensure the freedom of the daughter of a prominent Muslim faithful whose daughter was accused of drug peddling in Saudi Arabia.” Hayab regretted that the strides made to downplay religious bias and unite all northerners by the late Sardauna and Premier of the North, Sir Ahmadu Bello, had not been sustained by leaders who came after him. He called on the Sultan of Sokoto and other prominent religious leaders to speak the truth on issues that affect the unity of the country at all times, saying Nigeria would only get better when they do so. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa'ad Abubakar has disputed the claim by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that Christians are the target of persecution in Nigeria. CAN had earlier stated that the United States inclusion of Nigeria in the list of nations that tolerate religious persecution is not far from… December 26, 2019 In "News" The Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III and President, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle, on Tuesday in Abuja signed peace pact to ensure peaceful atmosphere before, during and after 2019 general elections. September 18, 2018 In "News" The Christian Association of Nigerian (CAN), yesterday, berated the United States (US) Secretary of States, Mr John Kerry over his visit to Nigeria, describing the visit as discriminatory, personal and divisive. August 26, 2016 In "News"