It was all plump and excitement in the state of Osun last Tuesday, as the Ooni of Ife,his royal majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, was conferred with the Grand Patron of DGN and Imperial Majesty of Nollywood by the Directors Guild of Nigeria, DGN. BREAKING: CBN, banks begin N22bn creative industry initiative The Directors Guild of Nigeria, who visited the traditional ruler, as part of activities marking their 20 years in existence, honoured the royal father with this title as a way of thanking him for his consistent support to the Nollywood industry, while urging him to use his influence to do more to take the Nigeria movie industry to the next level. Speaking to the press after the conferment ceremony, president of the DGN, Olorogun Fred Amata had this to say “I am overwhelmed, privileged and honoured today to be leading a delegation of famous people of Nollywood to this land of greatness and cradle of civilization. There are various other guilds and associations in Nollywood. Our purpose of coming here despite the fame we have achieved is to felicitate and identify with this great land and the King in the service to our creativity, humanity, and provision of assistance to professional filmmaking in Nigeria. Thank you for accepting DGN as we believe this synergy and bonding mark a new positive beginning for continuous support and encouragement to better the guild and the Nigerian movie industry.” Reacting to the good gesture, his royal majesty said “I greet all members and executives of the Directors’ Guild of Nigeria. It is indeed a great honour and adoration to have you here. You have shown me, love, peace and sign of togetherness. I don’t know who told you to come to make me your Grand Patron, because I am very happy to associate with you from today. I am a very active supporter of the movie industry in Nigeria. I have supported lots of movie initiatives and projects in Nigeria. Things I have been doing indirectly can be done directly now.” “Everyone is running after Netflix. Why can’t we have our own Netflix here? Why can’t we have hubs where we can be downloading movies and think outside the box? I built a resort in Lagos. It is one of the biggest resorts in Nigeria with about 250 hectares of land. My plan was to build a movie city before I became a King. Several movies have actually been done there. I have been thinking aloud that in this country we should have a movie city like what they have in California. Even as a King I am trying to build a film city that is called Ife Grand Resort and trying to take it to another level.” Most actors don’t know what it entails becoming a Celebrity – Emeka Rollas The DGN, who had its executive members in attendance, visited the Royal father in his temple, as part of activities marking the guild’s 20th anniversary holding in March 2020 at the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Vanguard The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has described King Sunny Ade (KSA) as a living legend worth celebrating. September 28, 2016 In "Music" The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, has advised Yoruba Obas not to allow supremacy battle bring disunity among them. October 18, 2016 In "News" oni of Ife, Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II , will be celebrating this year's Nigerian National Cultural Heritage in Oyotunji Village in United States of America. January 21, 2017 In "News"