The Kano State Executive Council has approved the sum of N2,543,819, 588.67 for the construction and upgrading of the health facilities in the headquarters of the four newly created Emirates in the state. The project in the health facilities to take place in Bichi, Gaya, Rano and Karaye will include the construction of accident and maternity wards, 22-bed medical wards, Eye Centre, ENT clinic, dental clinic, Physiotherapy unit, roads among other facilities. This was made known on Monday by the Kano Commissioner for Information and Internal Affairs, Muhammad Garba while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the Executive Council meeting. “Kano state Executive Council has approved the sum of N2, 543, 819, 588.67 billion for the construction and upgrading works at the four health facilities in the newly created Emirate headquarters of Bichi, Gaya, Rano and Karaye. “The New projects contained in the approval include the construction of Accident and Emergency Ward, 22- Bed Medical Ward, Eye Centre, ENT Clinic, Dental Clinic Physiotherapy unit, Laboratory unit, Mortuary Block, construction of road network, landscaping, overhead tank, borehole and reticulation in each of the facility. “There would also be renovation works on all the four facilities that involved the Zonal office, Paediatrics ward, Accident and Emergency, store, offices, new laboratory, Male and Female Wards, maternity block, pharmacy, X-ray, catering department, theatre block,” he stated. The commissioner also announced that the council has given approval for the award of contract for the equipping and furnishing of the upcoming state Cancer Centre at the total cost of N4, 238, 855, 671.91 billion with aim of improving healthcare delivery in the state. It would be recalled that the creation of the Emirates out of the former Kano Emirate has raised a lot of row that has led to the intervention of a high powered delegation after the Kano State government had legalised the creation of the Emirates and a High court in the state had thrown out a case challenging the creation of the Emirates on technical grounds. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje had stated that one of the reasons for the creation of the Emirates was to upgrade the health and education sectors for the benefit of the growing population thereby expanding development of the state. He had also declared that the Emirates have come to stay. Vanguard By Abdulmumin Murtala, Kano Following court's decision to nullify the four newly created Emirates in Kano, the state Executive Council has approved the Emirate Council Bill 2019 which provides for the establishment of additional Emirates in the state. This is contained in a statement issued by the State Commissioner for… December 2, 2019 In "News" Kano Kingmakers have employed the service of 7 Senior Advocates of Nigeria and 17 other lawyers to challenge governor, Abdullahi Ganduje and Kano House Assembly and others in court over the creation of more new Kano Emirates. May 15, 2019 In "News" Kano state government has approved N4 billion for the construction of underpass and flyover that will connect Zaria Road/Silver Jubilee and Zoo road in the metropolis. March 19, 2018 In "News"