Eight people were still missing after a volcanic eruption in New Zealand, with no indications they survived the explosion that has already left five dead, police said Tuesday. After initial confusion about how many people were visiting White Island when it erupted unexpectedly on Monday, police said a clearer picture of the disaster was emerging. “Forty-seven people went onto the island — we can now confirm five are deceased, 31 are currently in hospital, a further eight are still missing and three have been discharged from hospital,” police official Bruce Bird said. Among the missing are tourists from Australia, the United States, Britain, China and Malaysia, as well as New Zealanders who were acting as tour guides. New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern offered condolences on behalf of the country. “To those who have lost or are missing family and friends, we share in your unfathomable grief and in your sorrow,” she said. “Your loved ones stood alongside Kiwis who were hosting you here and we grieve with you.” Bird said a helicopter has scoured the island — a popular tourist attraction — for 45 minutes, checking if anyone was still alive. “We do not believe anybody else has survived that explosion,” he said. Police will assess whether a recovery mission to remove bodies from the island is possible Tuesday amid the risk of further eruptions. “Today our focus will be on working with experts to determine the safety for us to return to the island to look to recover those people who are currently missing,” Bird said. “We will only go to the island when it is safe to do so for our people.” [Agence France-Presse] Vanguard News Nigeria. Five people have been confirmed dead after a huge volcanic eruption on White Island, New Zealand. Around 100 tourists were on or near the island at the time but only 23 have been rescued so far. Police Deputy Commissioner John Tims said that some of those rescued were injured. He… December 9, 2019 In "Foreign" Reconnaissance flights over New Zealand's White Island volcano have not identified any survivors there after Monday's eruption, police said. Up to 50 people were believed to be on the island. Five people are known to have died and 23 were rescued, some of them critically ill with burn injuries. Police… December 9, 2019 In "News" At least five people have now been confirmed to have died after a volcano erupted off the east coast of New Zealand’s North Island, police confirmed on Monday. READ ALSO: Five people confirmed dead after volcano eruption in New Zealand New Zealand Deputy Commissioner John Tims said foreigners and New Zealand… December 9, 2019 In "Foreign"