French screen legend Catherine Deneuve has gone home following hospital treatment for a minor stroke, sources close to the actress said on Wednesday. The early November stroke was “very limited and hence reversible” and she returned home in recent days, her entourage said, confirming a report in French daily Le Parisien. “Catherine Deneuve has indeed returned home. She is resting and pursuing her convalescence, hoping to resume her activities as soon as possible,” one friend told AFP on condition of anonymity. Le Parisien had reported some locals in the suburb of Saint-Germain-des-Pres, where she lives, as spotting her in recent days. Earlier this month, actor Benoit Magimel, who was shooting alongside Deneuve in Emmanuelle Bercot’s latest drama “De Son Vivant” (“In her/his Lifetime”) when she was taken ill, told AFP that she was “resting” and doing “well”. He added that shooting of the film, in which Deneuve stars as the mother of a cancer victim, was set to resume early next year. Deneuve, 76, who was taken ill on November 6 with what her family referred to as a very limited ischemic stroke, involving reduced blood flow to the brain, has previously featured in two Bercot films. Work on the latest movie was scheduled to last nine weeks after starting on October 11. Eritrean artists profit from peace to make their mark on Ethiopia https://t.co/QKrTr9rMcf #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/v8SKG32efC — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) December 11, 2019  Deneuve has starred in over 100 films over the course of a glittering career. In her youth, she was dubbed the “ice queen” for her aloof air and flawless, blonde good looks but in recent years has expanded her range with roles that reveal a more unconventional side. She caused scandal last year by attacking the #MeToo movement last year as a “puritanical witch-hunt”. VANGUARD A glittering array of A-listers swept up the red carpet as the Venice film festival opened in a flurry celebrity Wednesday, but the 11-day celebration of cinema is battling scandal over the inclusion of director Roman Polanski. August 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" Prince William and his wife Catherine announced Monday they are expecting their first child, ending fevered speculation about a baby destined to become Britain's monarch whether it is a boy or a girl. December 3, 2012 In "News" A crossbow in her hands and covered top-to-toe in a black Islamic headwear and robe that leaves only her eyes visible -- that is the image now circulating of France's most-wanted woman: Hayat Boumeddiene. January 10, 2015 In "News"