Kelechi Iheanacho scored his fourth goal of the season to help Leicester City to a 4-1 victory against Aston Villa on Sunday.
Before his strike, the Nigerian had assisted Jammie Vardy to put the Foxes ahead in the 20th minute. Four minutes before the half-time break, he doubled their advantage after converting James Maddison’s cross at the near post with the aid of Ezri Konsa’s deflection. It was a significant goal for Iheanacho, with the 23-year-old now scoring in all four his appearances for Brendan Rodgers’ side this term. Also, he has been involved in six goals in his two starts in all competitions against Aston Villa (four goals, two assists), scoring three goals and assisting one for Manchester City in January 2016 in the FA Cup and scoring and assisting on Sunday. The former Citizen golden boy has faced some criticism this season; however, he now looks back to something like his best. Although Jack Grealish pulled a goal back for the hosts on the stroke of half-time, it proved as a consolation as Jonny Evans sealed the triumph while Vardy completed his brace later on. After putting up an imposing performance, Harvey Barnes replaced Iheanacho in the 64th minute, but his Nigerian compatriot Wilfried Ndidi held sway in the Foxes’ midfield for the duration. Leicester are second in the English top-flight log with 38 points from 16 outings, and they would be hoping to make it nine wins from nine consecutive outings when they welcome Norwich City to the King Power Stadium on December 14. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News  Iheanacho Kelechi Iheanacho was the unlikely hero as Leicester came from behind to beat Everton 2-1 and close the gap on Liverpool at the top of the Premier League to eight points. The Nigerian had not played a single minute of Premier League football this season prior to being summoned… December 2, 2019 In "News" Algeria and Leicester City winger Riyad Mahrez crowned a wonderful weekend when he was voted Player of the Year by fellow English Premier League professionals. April 25, 2016 In "News" When Leicester striker Kelechi Iheanacho ran onto a Riyad Mahrez pass to slot home in the 77th minute of the third round replay, his strike was initially ruled out for offside. January 17, 2018 In "News"