Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has lampooned security agencies, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) for describing what happened in the state on November 16, 2019, as an election. The governor said on Monday that what transpired on that date in the name of an election was a well-organised massacre of innocent persons by agents of the state and the writing of results and announcement of same by INEC in favour of the ruling APC. For that reason, the governor has asked the electoral commission, the security agencies and the ruling party to apologize to the traumatized people of the state and to stop celebrating stolen mandate from the People’s Democratic Party. Governor Dickson said a panel raised by him to examine the high level of violence in Nembe, one of the local government areas of the state confirmed that no fewer than 93 persons were critically injured and 12 killed by militiamen during the poll. He lamented that while security agents assisted the APC to write and declare results, almost all the collation officers were shipped from the University of Benin and ordered to work in favour of the party. The governor said: ”There was no election in Bayelsa on November 16; what they claim as election in that day was an insult to our people. as we speak, Nembe is under siege by security agencies. The brutality they visited on the people on that day is unprecedented,” the governor said. Dickson said however that the people of the state take consolation in the fact that there are two valid court ruling that APC did not have a candidate for the governorship election and the fact that the party has begun legal moves to reclaim its mandate. Vanguard Samuel Oyadongha - Yenagoa BAYELSA State Governor, Seriake Dickson, said on Wednesday the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not given a convincing reassurance of its impartiality in the November 16 governorship election in the state. The governor said it was rather worrisome and shocking that INEC betrayed the confidence… October 16, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, reported President Muhammadu Buhari to the United Nations, UN, over alleged plots by the Presidency and the All Progressives Congress, APC, to scuttle the 2019 general elections, particularly, the presidential poll. November 24, 2018 In "News" Former Bayelsa State governor and candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, in the just concluded governorship poll in the state, Chief Timipre Sylva, yesterday said he would challenge the outcome of the election in the state at the tribunal, describing the exercise as a sham. January 12, 2016 In "News"