To stem the tide of cultism and other nefarious activities in Anambra State during the Christmas period, the state police command’s  Special Anti Cult Unit, in conjunction with Puff-Adder/Kpochakpu operatives had arrested 82 suspected cultists in various parts of the state. Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, in the state, Mr Haruna a Mohammad said in Awka that the arrests were made during raids at various hideouts and black spots where suspected cultists were hibernating. Details showed that at Onitsha/ Ogidi /Nkpor axis, 22 suspected cultists were arrested, while at Awka /Amansea axis, 10 were also arrested. At Oba/Nnewi axis, 22 were arrested, while 10 were arrested at Nsugbe/Nkwelle-ezunaka axis and 18 at Ogbunike/Abagana axis. According to him, out of the number of arrests, 15 had been charged to court, while 42 suspects were undergoing investigation. He said that exhibits recovered from the suspects, who confessed being members of secret cult groups, include seven machetes, three axes, one dagger, one Vikings barret, five improvised bunkers for inhaling substances and some quantity of weeds suspected to be cocaine and Cannabis sativa. He also said the command’s Special Anti-cult unit had arrested three suspected criminals operating in military uniform. Their names were given as Joseph Onyedika, 23, of Okposi in Ohaozara LGA of Eboyi State, Emmanuel Christopher,  27, of Oraifite in Ekwusigo LGA of Anambra State and ThankGod Sike, 25, of Obioma Ngwa in Abia State, but residing at Nnewi In Anambra  State. Haruna said the suspects claimed that they were serving military personnel, adding that a Jack knife was found in their possession at the time of their arrest. He added that two of the suspects were fake soldiers, while the remaining one was undergoing further investigation at the military cantonment to ascertain his true identity. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Nasarawa State Police Command, has arrested 58 suspects over alleged armed robbery, kidnapping and cultism in the state. July 9, 2019 In "News" In its continued efforts to stem crime and ensure safety of lives and property, the Anambra Police Command says it has arrested 135 suspected cultists with 12 days in parts of the state following raids on their hideouts. December 19, 2018 In "News" No fewer than 700 suspected cultists and 38 suspected armed robbers were arrested in different parts of Anambra in the last three weeks, Mr Garba Umar , the state Commissioner of Police, has said. July 23, 2017 In "News"