Nollywood actress, Seyi Hunter, has landed an endorsement deal with Debaytask Global Services Limited. The pageant organizer and adult entertainment consultant was recently unveiled as the brand ambassador of the Abuja based real estate firm. The deal is said to be worth millions of Naira and land in Abuja. Speaking at the unveiling, the CEO of Debaytask Global Services Limited, Hon Bankole Arekemase, expressed confidence that the company’s alliance with Hunter will be of mutual benefit. He also took the actress and other members of the team on excursion around their sites and projects in Maitama, Jabi, Airport road, Gwarimpa and other locations in the FCT. Seyi Hunter, who expressed her appreciation to the real estate brand for considering her as a worthy ambassador for the real estate company, assured the management that she would use her brand to push company’s image to the public. “I am excited about this deal, not only because it is my first Endorsement, but also because it is a massive one at that,” she said. “The duration of the contract is for two years. I am going to use my brand to promote the company, give it my best and treat it like it’s mine,” Seyi Hunter said. Vanguard Nollywood actress, Mercy Johnson Okojie a.k.a Mercy Johnson, has been signed to one of the top real estate companies in Nigeria ‘Pennek” as their brand ambassador. October 21, 2019 In "Entertainment" Global technology giant Midea Group in conjunction with the sole distributor of Midea products in Nigeria, Somotex Nigeria Limited, one of the biggest distributors of consumer electronics and home Appliances in Nigeria, at a media event on 15th of May 2019 unveiled Adebola Adeyela popularly known in the entertainment industry… May 24, 2019 In "Sponsored" Pennek Nigeria Limited, one of Nigeria’s top real estate companies, has signed popular Nollywood actress and television host, Mercy Johnson Okojie, as its brand ambassador. Mercy Johnson shared the news with her fans on social media, expressing her excitement over the new deal. Pennek Nigeria specializes in the procurement and… October 21, 2019 In "News"