The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) has called on President Muhammadu Buhari led-government to reduce the cost of governance by abolishing bicameral legislature to adopt unicameral assembly. He said salaries of lawmakers were described as the highest pay in the world. The National Chairman of the party, Malam Falalu Bello, made the call on Tuesday at the maiden edition of PRP Media Dialogue in Abuja. Bello said that the country would grow if the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration could reduce the cost of governance to revamp the economy, tackle insecurity and corruption. “If the Nation is to grow, this can be achieved by reducing the cost of the legislature to the economy which is one of highest, if not the highest, in the world by reducing its budget to no more than half. “Government should abolish the bicameral legislature and make it unicameral as done by sensible and sensitive nations in recent history. “Nigeria is a poor nation and cannot afford a bicameral assembly paying itself so handsomely without any checks on its expenditures. “We would be with the president if he initiates a serious downward review of the costs of the National Assembly to the nation,” the party’s chairman said. He said that the Federal Government should reduce expenditures at the executive arm, beginning with the highest level of government, especially the presidency. “We urge President Muhammadu Buhari to have the courage of looking into and implementing in whole or in part the Oronsanye Report as a means of reducing the executive cost of governance in Nigeria,” he said, as reported by NAN. vanguard Chief Osita Chidoka, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has canvassed one-chamber federal lawmaking house as one of the practical steps toward reducing the cost of governance. Chidoka said this in a statement issued by Mr. Ikechukwu Okafor, his Special Adviser on Media Relations in Awka on Thursday.… October 10, 2019 In "News" A member of House of Representatives Mr Kinsley Chinda (PDP-Rivers), says adopting parliamentary system will help reduce corruption and address frictions among different arms of government in Nigeria. January 1, 2019 In "News" A member of House of Representatives Mr Kinsley Chinda (PDP-Rivers), says adopting parliamentary system will help reduce corruption and address frictions among different arms of government in Nigeria. January 1, 2019 In "News"