A captivating stage play by Kessavier Vanille Productions titled ‘Hertitude’ is set to return to stage from December 14. The play had a successful debut earlier in the year at the Wole Soyinka Hall, Freedom Park, Lagos. Malaysia orders inquiry over half-naked tattoo show(Opens in a new browser tab) The play will come alive again at the Cinema Hall 1 of the National Theatre on the 14th, 15th, 21st, 22nd, 25th, 28th, 29th of December, 2019 and 1st, 4th and 5th of January 2020. Written and directed by award-winning screenwriter, Kesiena Obue, Hertitude tells the story of three sisters; Kesiena, Rume and Ogor reunite one more time, when their single mother suffers a debilitating heart attack. The reunion at Rume’s private club becomes an explosive peeling of many years of latent feminine siblings’ angst. They struggle to deal with despair, betrayal, loneliness and failure, as past resentments, their individual demons, the pressures of society’s arbitrary formulation of womanhood and social media influences emerge. Kesiena Obue has written and directed for theatre, film, television and other multiple creative platforms around the Country and the United States. Some of her recent credits include The Bling Lagosians, Moremi the Musical, Fela and the Kalakuta Queens, Wakaa the Musical and Femi Osofisan’s A Nightingale for Dr Du Bois. Her words: “The play dwells so much on parental abuse which most people in the society don’t like to talk about and also the question of immorality which has been exemplified in the play. Though the plays has women as principal characters, it is not a feminism storyline but a drama centred on women’s role and their impact on shaping society,” she said. Hertitude is like a smokescreen of what individuals are inside and what they really are inside when people are not there, the real ugliness inside us, our flaws and imperfections.” The play features Martha Ehinome Orhiere, Jessica Gabriels, Maryann Ivy, Njoku Cynthia Nneka. Mourinho not thinking of time at Man Utd ahead of Old Trafford return(Opens in a new browser tab) Expressing the readiness of National Arts Theatre to host the event, Steve Ogundele, Public Relations Officer, National Arts Theatre assured of adequate security, world class theatrical ambience and technical facilities. Ogundele said, “We are happy to work with the talented producers of Hertitude who know their onions. We want to use Hertitude as a signpost to once again showcase the National Arts Theatre as the hub of theatrical excellence. The Cinema Hall 1 boasts of a mechanised curtain and a proscenium arc, something you hardly see in this part of the world. We invite Nigerians to come experience a feast of thespian art.” Vanguard A new stage drama in musical performance called ‘Wakaa the Musical’ which will be premiering this yuletide season have been described as one with magic wand, showcasing Intrigues, betrayals and games people play in life. Coming under the auspice of the award winning producer, Bolanle Austen-Peters’ Production (BAP), the new… November 26, 2015 In "News" KESIENA Okpan Arhibo a.k.a Shuun Bebe has become a household name in Delta State musical scene with his fusion of pidgin English and Urhobo language. His hit track ‘Enaiso’ is so captivating and popular, that it is sung at all marriage ceremonies across and beyond the state. October 10, 2014 In "Entertainment" AS part of its vision of transmitting true African stories to the next generation for posterity, the award winning Bolanle Austen-Peters Productions and House of Oduduwa is set to premier another riveting stage play titled “Queen Moremi The Musical”. November 14, 2018 In "The Arts"