The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan on Thursday said the establishment of federal polytechnic, Orogun would be of great social and economic enhancement to the state in particular, the South-South geopolitical zone and the country in general. Lawan stated this at a one-day public hearing in Abuja on a bill to establish Federal Polytechnic, Orogun Delta. He was represented by the Deputy Senate Leader Robert Boroffice. The event was organised by the Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TetFund. In his presentation, Prof. Samuel Ibodje said that the establishment of the institution would be of great social and economic enhancement to the state in particular, the South-South geopolitical zone and the country in general. While stressing that the establishment of a federal polytechnic in Delta was long overdue. He said this would boost local contents through effective community participation in the oil industry and reduce unemployment through skill acquisition. The Chairman of the Committee, Sen. Ahmad Kaita, noted that the committee was not in receipt of submissions against the establishment of the institution. In a similar development, the Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege said that the federal polytechnic, Orogun when established, will address youth restiveness in the Niger Delta region. Omo-Agege said that increased availability of technical and vocational education should be part of core strategies towards permanently addressing youth restiveness and boosting oil and gas production in the region. Omo-Agege who is the sponsor of the bill explained that he sponsored the bill in response to constituents’ yearnings. He said: “The proposed federal polytechnic Orogun is conceived as an institution for academic excellence in the fulfilment of the Federal Government’s policy of establishing at least one federal polytechnic in every state of the federation. “It will be an institution with an all-embracing statutory mandate to develop a wide range of professionals in engineering and technology, social sciences, sciences, the arts and humanities, among others. “This polytechnic is coming to resolve a huge challenge presently affecting a great majority of our otherwise qualified tertiary education admission seekers.” Declaring the event open, President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan noted that it was remarkable that out of numerous memoranda received for the public hearing, there was no single objection to proposals for the establishment of the institution. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has said that the federal polytechnic, Orogun when established, will address youth restiveness in the Niger Delta region. December 12, 2019 In "News" By Henry Umoru - Abuja The bill titled: “A bill for an Act to Establish the Federal Polytechnic Orogun, Delta State to Provide Full-time Courses in Technology, Applied Science, Management and other Fields of Studies and to Make Provisions for the General Administration and for Related Matters, 2019 (SB. 34)”… November 7, 2019 In "Education" The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nomination of Mr Adeleke Adewolu the nominee from South West, as Executive Commissioner of the Nigerian Communications Commission ( NCC). October 9, 2019 In "News"