IN line with the church mission statement of building and equipping the people that build the nation and in the spirit of Christmas, the Word of Life Bible Church on Boxing Day gave out 20 mini-buses to less privileged persons as part of its yearly empowerment programme. Christmas: Osinbajo, Gowon, Omo-Agege, Onayaikan others attend carol The founder of the church and immediate past National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pastor Ayo Oritsejafor and his wife, Pastor (Mrs) Helen Oritsejafor have continued on the voyage they started in December 2005 to alleviate poverty in the nation without prejudice to creed or ethnicity. It was ecstatic in the humid harmattan weather at the Ajamimogha area of Warri, the host community of the church, as one physically challenged person, one virtually impaired and a handful of other disabled individuals as well as a teen twins, became instant owners of dully registered and insured mini-buses or tricycles. A total of 1,075 persons who thronged the Ajamimogha Street, venue of the 14th annual empowerment programme became instant recepient of one of the 20 mini-buses, or five tricycle, or 50 grinding machines or the 1,000 10-liter bags of rice as consolation prices and went home rejoicing. According to the church’s director in charge of empowerment, Pastor Oke Obi-Egbedi in December 2005, Pastor Oritsejafor and his wife, Helen partnered with Eagle Flight Micro Finance Bank to start an empowerment programme for the people. “Oritsejafor, ever since, makes it a tradition to empower the less privileged and to alleviate the sufferings of families all over at the end of every December,” he said, stressing “Oritsejafor sees himself as a servant of God and an instrument through which the God ministers to the spiritual and physical needs of people. “He places emphasis on salvation, repentance, holiness, deliverance and empowerment of the less privileged, through social responsibility programmes. Over the years, he has condemned wastefulness and encouraged giving back to the society, regardless of religion or race. “He offers scholarships to indigent students in various tertiary, secondary and elementary institutions both within and outside Nigeria irrespective of tribe or denomination,” Obi-Egbedi stated. Winners who emerged via ballot picked by small boys and girls were, however, given some conditions which included that the items are given to matured people; all winners who are not members of the Word of Life Bible Church, shall automatically become members of the church to enable us mentor and discipline them for optimal usefulness to the church and our communities . Oritsejafor commissions portable water project for Warri community The only other proviso, according to him, “where a winner sells the item won, or not seen in church, the Church and the bank reserve the right to recover or recover or retrieve such item from the winner.” Vanguard