Healthcare services platform, Concierge Medical Practices, CMD, recently, introduced a digital platform which will enable Health Management Organisations, HMOs, hospitals and corporate bodies engage their clients to virtual wellness services using a technical services firm, GHD platform. USM launches channel for children engagement, cultural teachings Speaking during the launch in Lagos, GHD Group Managing Director, Mr. Godwin Williams, said that the digital clinic will provide opportunity for the subscribers to engage their clients on personalized preventative wellness. Williams explained: “What we do is to provide a platform that enables the patient to engage a doctor, enables healthcare providers engage their patients, enable the employer to ensure that their employees are well through gaining access to care and prevent them from basic illness. “The platform will enable HMOs to mitigate risks, engage employees before they get sick. That way, the employees are prevented from incessant visits to the hospital. When employees go to the hospital frequently, it is costly to the HMOs. But with this platform, all the employees gain access and be able to engage the doctor, so that they can be well. With our platform, a patient can sit at home or work, and contact a doctor.” Also speaking, Medical Director for CMD, Dr Omadeli Boyo said that the system was developed with necessary security features to prevent people’s information from being hacked or carried into the public space. The group also unveiled a technology called first Oncology, which makes use of Pet imaging technology to trace cancer anywhere in the body. Healthcare delivery: LASG to partner NGO on free medical mission for residents CMD Chairman, Dr Benson Cole, said the first Oncology Nigeria is a nuclear imaging project that is aimed at addressing the lack of Pet CT scan services in Nigeria. Vanguard THE Chief Medical Director (CMD), University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Prof. Jesse Otegbayo, has disclosed that the hospital would take the lead in the training of radiology informatics in the West African sub-region for precise and effective healthcare delivery in diseases such as cancer. September 1, 2019 In "News" ...acquires over N81m anaesthesia machine, equipment By Adeola Badru IBADAN-THE Chief Medical Director (CMD), University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Prof. Jesse Otegbayo, has disclosed that the hospital would take the lead in the training of radiology informatics in the West African sub-region for precise and effective healthcare delivery in diseases… September 1, 2019 In "Health" In line with government efforts towards eliminating medical tourism, a digital healthcare platform, iDHS Healthwise and Trademark of Integrated Digital Healthcare System Ltd has debut in Nigeria. August 24, 2018 In "Health"