The Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, through the Oyo State Resident Electoral Commissioner Barrister Mutiu Agboke has declared that henceforth no one would be allowed to come to public office through the power of gun or manipulation. The declaration of zero tolerance against electoral misconduct was made during the commission’s end of the year party held in Ibadan recently. According to him, “INEC would continue to sustain the provision of level playing ground for all parties and candidates in any election. When we allow due process to take place in our system, it will bring about natural peace, the security personnel will do less job, but where you allow a disorganized election or manipulated process to be the source of bringing somebody into public office, such a system will be a recipe for unrest, chaos and for various insurrections”. The activities surrounding the conduct of elections in the country should continue to be guided by the 1999 constitution as amended as well as 2010 electoral act as amended, “I came to Oyo State, we took an oath and stood by it. I assured the people of the state that their votes would be counted, I told my staff that our job is to make sure that people’s votes are counted, they were forced to work according to my mindset and my mindset is to make sure that people’s votes are counted.” He said. He further declared that the conduct of election in the country should follow due process, “I can say without fear that the results we announced during the last elections are the true reflections of the wishes and desire of the people of Oyo State which the Supreme court has confirmed through its recent judgment on the governorship election in the state.” The Oyo State REC in his seasons greeting message advised that good governance should not be left in the hands of political leaders and other stakeholders in the electioneering process but rather active participation of all and sundry is also key to the development of the country’s democracy. VANGUARD IBADAN—THE Resident Electoral Commissioner, REC, in Oyo State, Mr. Mutiu Agboke, yesterday, issued a strong warning to politicians that the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, would not rig in favour of any politician or political party. March 7, 2019 In "News" The new Resident Electoral Commissioner in Oyo State, Mr Mutiu Agboke, has warned staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) against engaging in electoral malpractices during the 2019 general elections. January 26, 2018 In "News" Mr Mutiu Agboke, the Resident Electoral Commissioner( REC) in Oyo State, has called on the electorate to participate actively in the 2019 general elections, saying voter apathy is inimical to democratic growth. November 29, 2018 In "News"