India’s controversial Citizenship Act has triggered widespread protests across the country, with thousands of people including students and Bollywood personalities taking to the streets. Not only are ordinary people taking to the streets to voice their disagreement over the amended citizenship law, they are also taking to Twitter. The Citizenship Law grants citizenship to illegal immigrants from six religious minorities – Hindus, Parsis, Jains, Christians, Buddhists, and Sikhs, from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan, if they arrived in India prior to Dec. 31, 2014. It, however, does not extend to Muslims – something which many claims violates the Indian constitution. Netizens have blamed Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi for what they believe to be an attempt to divide the country on the basis of religion, with the hashtag #IndiaHatesModi trending on Twitter in the country. They also suggested that the politician “sell tea, not (his) country”, and alleged that if people supported the Modi government and the ruling Bharatuya Janata Party (BNP), it meant they “hate Muslims”. Vanguard  Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met his council of ministers on Saturday to discuss security measures to end violent protests against a citizenship law, government sources said, in one of biggest crises yet for his Hindu nationalist government. At least 14 people have been killed in clashes between police and… December 21, 2019 In "Foreign" India's Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, has appealed for calm as violent protests against a new law on illegal migrants continued for a fifth day. Large rallies have been taking place in the capital Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Kolkata (formerly Calcutta). Monday's protests came a day after clashes between police and… December 16, 2019 In "News" India's ruling Hindu nationalist government on Wednesday secured parliamentary approval for a controversial citizenship law that critics say undermines the country's secular constitution, as protests against the law intensify in some parts of the country. India's parliament Wednesday passed a contentious bill that seeks to grant citizenship to non-Muslim immigrants… December 11, 2019 In "Foreign"