Mr Shina Olukolu, the Commissioner of Police in Oyo, has urged police officers in the command to undertake their duties with the fear of God. Olukolu made the call on Friday evening during a dinner and award presentation ceremony held at the state police headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan. He said that men and officers of the force should endeavour to wear human faces in their dealings with members of the public. “We have to work with the fear of Almighty God, we must also be mindful of how we pursue material things,” he said. The police commissioner stated that only the grace of God could uplift humans in their careers, saying, “we must shun dubious acts. “If humans do not see the things we do, God watches and sees us; He also knows how to reward us. “When we shout at you, our whole intention is to show good mentoring in your interest and that of the society which we serve,” he said. Olukolu used the occasion to commend the police management team and officers in the state for a cordial working relationship. In his remark, Rev. Moses Aransiola, President, Gethsemane Prayer Ministries International, said that the ministry and the police had been partnering on the annual event in the past 22 years. Aransiola said that the partnership was in the area of law enforcement and the enthronement of peace and security. “The commitment to national service gave birth to the annual police dinner and award presentation 22 years ago. “It is our way of encouraging and empowering Nigeria Police officers who are doing their best in the discharge of their duties in spite of obvious challenges,’’ he said. He urged corporate organisations and good spirited individuals to evolve ways of supporting the police to perform more effectively. Speaking on behalf of the recipients, ASP Ogunlade Kehinde, Area Commander, Ogbomoso thanked the police management team and the Gethsemane ministries for the wards. Kehinde said the award would serve as motivation for them to perform better in future. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the award ceremony was organised by Gethsemane Prayer Ministries International, Ibadan, in collaboration with the Nigeria Police, Oyo state Command. vanguard FOLLOWING the abduction of Dayo Adewole, son of immediate past Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, Tuesday, Oyo State Commissioner of Police, Mr Shina Olukolu and scores of policemen yesterday stormed the farm where he was whisked away by his abductors. June 20, 2019 In "Headlines" By Adeola Badru AS a reprisal of the xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in South Africa, some unknown persons late Tuesday night set ablaze the MTN office at Bodija in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Some protesters had tried to attack other South African businesses located in some parts of Ibadan… September 4, 2019 In "News" For Prince Amen Oyakhire, a former military administrator of Taraba and Oyo states, joining partisan politics after retiring as an Assistant Inspector General of Police was not an option. He speaks, in this interview, on the reasons he chose not to join politics, his views about military and civilian governors,… August 3, 2013 In "Special Report"