  Disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, who is due to go on trial on predatory sexual assault charges in Manhattan next month, is now facing more heat from prosecutors in California. The Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office says it is reviewing eight cases of sexual misconduct against the 67-year-old producer, according to a report in Variety Tuesday. A spokesman for the office would not provide details of the alleged acts, but the magazine said that prosecutors in the City of Angels have been reviewing claims against Weinstein for two years. Beverly Hills and Los Angeles police each turned over four cases to prosecutors in 2018, Variety said. The district attorney’s office had not provided updates on those cases since August of that year. One of the cases involves an Italian model who was allegedly raped by Weinstein at the Mr. C Beverly Hills hotel in 2013, according to Variety, which reported she was interviewed by Los Angeles police in 2017 and the case later turned over to the DA. Manhattan prosecutors plan to call three witnesses to testify about Weinstein’s “prior bad acts” in their case set to go on trial Jan. 6, including a woman who alleged she was raped by Weinstein at a hotel in Beverly Hills on Feb. 19, 2013 — though it was unclear if she was the model. Weinstein, who is free on bail, faces life in prison if convicted. He has been accused of sexual assault or sexual harassment by more than 80 women but has denied that he had non-consensual sex with his accusers. Source: PageSix Vanguard News A New York judge has denied Harvey Weinstein’s request to dismiss two predatory sexual assault charges, ahead of the former Hollywood producer’s trial in January. The decision released on Wednesday by Justice James Burke of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan is a victory for prosecutors who have charged Weinstein… November 28, 2019 In "Entertainment" Six months after bombshell sexual assault allegations blew up against Harvey Weinstein, pressure is growing for the onetime Hollywood mogul to be brought to justice, with the Manhattan prosecutor under fire for failing to bring a criminal case against him three years ago. March 20, 2018 In "News" The case against disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein took on an international dimension Thursday, with New York police saying they are probing allegations of a 2004 sexual assault while British police said they had opened an inquiry into a separate complaint dating to the 1980s. October 12, 2017 In "Showtime People"