Excitement is in the air amongst the teens in Nigeria, as the date for the launch of Africa’s First Indigenous Teen Channel draws near. On December 1st 2019 at the Balmoral Hall, Federal Palace Hotel, the most anticipated teen channel known as Teen Africa TV, a brainchild of Charles Novia who’s the Founder/CEO, launches with a bang. According to Charles Novia, ‘Teen Africa TV is presently the biggest indigenous visual ecosystem for Teenagers in this part of the world. We speak the language of the Teens and we understand what they want. Our programmes are borne from research by them and all our original programmes have teens and young adults as presenters. We have given them their own world and there is nothing like this. The TATV presenters and brand ambassadors are some of the best teen talents in the country and we are very proud of them. We have assembled the next breakout youth talents who will take over the entertainment scene in Africa and the world in a few years and TATV is the natural springboard for these talents to ‘blow’. After the launch, Teen Africa TV will be on DSTV and Gotv as a 24 hour daily channel with the best original content for the teens and family audience. In what promises to be a revolution in the broadcast and media space in Africa, TATV will be the station to watch. Vanguard Excitement is in the air amongst the teens in Nigeria, as the date for the launch of Africa's First Indigenous Teen Channel draws near. On December 1st 2019 at the Balmoral Hall, Federal Palace Hotel, the most anticipated teen channel known as Teen Africa TV, a brainchild of Charles Novia… November 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" The first indigenous television channel for teenagers in Africa launches on December 1st in Lagos. Teen Africa TV, according to the Founder and CEO, Charles Novia,' is a new and exciting niche television channel poised to be the first platform for teenagers in the African broadcast space, running for 24 hours… November 16, 2019 In "Entertainment" Viacom International Media Networks Africa (VIMN Africa) and MultiChoice Group have announced the renewal of their distribution partnership which highlights the investment in local content, bringing audiences programming that showcases the best of Africa’s creativity and talent. December 1, 2019 In "Entertainment"