Iran on Friday called US foreign policy “delusional” and its chief diplomat a “loudspeaker for bullying, deceit and disdain”, a day after Washington announced new sanctions against Tehran. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, announcing the measures against two Iranian judges on Thursday, said Washington would also restrict visas for Iranian officials. “They will not achieve anything this way,” Iran’s Foreign Ministry Spokesman Abbas Mousavi said in a statement. “They have shown nothing to America’s people and the world other than an inefficient, delusional, static and bullying foreign policy.” President Donald Trump’s administration has already ended the vast majority of new visas for Iranians. Washington also reimposed unilateral sanctions on Iran’s oil and banking sectors after withdrawing from the multilateral 2015 nuclear deal last year and imposing a strategy of “maximum pressure”. Pompeo said the new measures were “for the sake of human dignity” and that the United States stands with the Iranian people. Mousavi said former Central Intelligence Agency chief Pompeo was unfit to be in the “civilised field” of diplomacy. “Foreign ministers are usually the heralds of peace, friendship, dialogue and respect while Mr. Pompeo is a loudspeaker for bullying, deceit and disdain,” he said. Pompeo said the visa restrictions, would apply to Iranian officials and their families. Announcing the sanctions, he condemned Iranian authorities over a crackdown against protests sparked by fuel price hikes. Amnesty International says more than 300 people died during the unrest. Iran, which blamed the unrest on “rioters” and its enemies, has dismissed such figures as “utter lies”. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States said Monday it would start imposing sanctions on friends such as India that buy Iranian oil, in its latest aggressive step to counter Tehran that could jeopardize US relationships. April 22, 2019 In "News" Iran’s foreign minister has warned any attack on his country in response to its alleged role in a drone and missile strike on Saudi oil facilities would result in “all-out war”, further heightening tensions across the Persian Gulf. Mohammad Javad Zarif’s comments are the starkest warning yet by Iran after… September 19, 2019 In "Foreign" Iran gave its most explicit rejection yet of talks with the United States on Saturday, and accused Washington of an “addiction to sanctions” over its latest spat with Turkey. August 11, 2018 In "News"