Immediate past Speaker of Kwara House of Assembly, Dr Ali Ahmad, has absolved the state’s 8th Assembly of alleged N5 billion fraud levelled against the lawmakers by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The ex-Speaker made the clarification in a statement made available to newsmen in llorin on Tuesday. Ahmad said: “The 8th Kwara State of House of Assembly or myself did not conspire with anyone to swindle N5 billion or any other amount belonging to the Kwara State Internal Revenue Service.” The former Speaker said Mr Masud Bakare, Chairman, House Committee on Finance and Appropriation during the eight Assembly, legally collected money from the revenue service for all former members. “Throughout the lifetime of the 8th Assembly, all committees had full independence regarding their operations and funds management in accordance with the Standing Rules of the House. “Let me also place on record that as former public officials, my colleagues and I are ready anytime, anywhere and before any lawful person or authority to make ourselves available for scrutiny”, the statement said. The former speaker, Ahmad urged the Kwara State Government to discreetly conduct a forensic audit of the past administration in the state. When contacted, EFCC Zonal Manager in Ilorin, lsiaku Sharu, said the Commission was not ready to join issues with any politician. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Demola Akinyemi The immediate past Speaker of Kwara state house of Assembly Dr Ali Ahmad has denied that he defrauded Kwara State Internal Revenue Service(KWiRS) of N5B or any other amount as claimed by the current Governor AbdulRahman Andulrazaq led administration in the state. Ahmad who stated this in… December 3, 2019 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has uncovered how 24 ex-lawmakers of Kwara House of Assembly, former Commissioner for Finance, Ademola Banu and some companies allegedly swindled the state of about N5 billion. Mr Wilson Uwujaren, Head of media and publicity of the Commission, disclosed this in a statement… November 23, 2019 In "Metro" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has uncovered how 24 former members of the Kwara State House of Assembly, the immediate past Commissioner for Finance,  Ademola Banu, and some companies allegedly siphoned about N5 billion belonging to Kwara State between 2015 to 2019. November 22, 2019 In "News"