Popular Yoruba actress, Bimbo Akinsanya has kicked against the notion that a good sex, medically, should not last more than 10 minutes. The actress, was reacting to a post by social media influencer, Tunde Ednut, that it has been proven medically that a good sex should not last more than 10 minutes. Baddyoosha: The unknown face behind Naija street music? The actress, who joined so many other entertainment stars to comment on the post was almost angry with the declaration in the post. She said, “10 minutes bawo? Is this person okay? Abeg shift. I say NO (capital no) to 10 minutes man.” Tunde Ednut in the post had asserted that people are being fooled by porns that sex could last for very much longer, pointing out that the porn films are not real and in most instances, shot over several days. Orgasms have saved me many times, therapist speaks on importance of good sex He posts, “ Medically, love making is not supposed to last for more than 10 minutes as the vagina is not meant to be wet for more than 8 minutes which makes lovemaking beyond 10 minutes torture and very harmful to the vagina.” Vanguard Bubbly and beautiful actress, Bimbo Oni, who is also a producer and TV presenter has hit ten years in the industry, featuring in both Yoruba-speaking and English-speaking films. Some of her films are Omo Oshodi, Aworawo, Boomerang, Shades of Peace, among many others. July 8, 2017 In "Showtime People" They are beautiful, vivacious, multi-talented and are on top of their trades. They are the new breed of Yoruba actresses who have changed the looks of Yoruba films with their ultra-cosmopolitan style both in packaging and delivery. Most of them shot into limelight barely two years ago while others got… June 19, 2009 In "Showtime People" NOLLYWOOD actress, Bimbo Akintola, yesterday, joined her colleagues in the movie industry to mourn the demise of veteran broadcaster and actor, Adebayo Faleti, who passed away on Saturday, July 22, at the University College Hospital, Ibadan. July 24, 2017 In "Entertainment"