Pep Guardiola is keen to avoid losing a second assistant to Arsenal after indicating Rodolfo Borrell still has a big role to play at Manchester City. Back-to-back Premier League champions City are seeing their crown slide this season, with Liverpool seemingly striding away towards trophy glory. And they suffered a fresh setback when Mikel Arteta was tempted away by Arsenal this week, with Guardiola’s de facto number two landing the head coach role at Emirates Stadium. Guardiola made no secret of his wish for Arteta to stay with City, but after three-and-a-half years of learning the ropes in Manchester, the 37-year-old saw his future in north London. Reports have linked Borrell with Arsenal too, with suggestions Arteta may see him as the perfect second-in-command. However, Guardiola is not minded to allow former Barcelona youth coach Borrell, who played a role in nurturing the early career of Lionel Messi, to follow the same path as Arteta. Former City youth coach Borrell will effectively take on Arteta’s old job, with the 48-year-old set to work more closely with Guardiola than before. “From now on he will stay with me. We don’t have any approach from Arsenal,” Guardiola told reporters at a news conference. Guardiola has ruled out bringing in a replacement from outside to take Arteta’s place before the end of the season. He said: “Until summer we are going to continue in this way.” City are back in Premier League action on Saturday afternoon, with high flying Leicester City set to arrive at Etihad Stadium. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Pep Guardiola insists he still has to earn a new contract at Manchester City despite winning five major trophies in the past two seasons. City are keen for Guardiola to commit to a deal beyond the current one that ends in 2021. But, in the midst of a frustrating season… December 21, 2019 In "News" Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola has wished former assistant Mikel Arteta well after he was confirmed as Arsenal's new head coach, claiming that the 37-year-old is ready for the step up to a top management role. The protracted process to announce a successor for Unai Emery was concluded on Friday… December 20, 2019 In "Sports" Alan Smith says Mikel Arteta would be his No.1 choice to succeed Unai Emery in the Arsenal hot seat, due to his strong "connection" with the club and "progressive" coaching style. Emery was relieved of his managerial duties on Friday after less than a year-and-a-half at the helm, having initially… December 2, 2019 In "Sports"