 Ellie Goulding, Lil Yachty and more expressed their shock after the sudden death of Chicago-born rapper Juice WRLD on Sunday at age 21. “I can’t believe it… you were such a sweet soul,” Goulding tweeted Sunday about the up-and-coming artist, whom she collaborated with on hit “Hate Me.” She continued saying, “I’ll always remember meeting you and your family on the video set and thinking how close you were. You had so much further to go, you were just getting started.” The hip hop talent, whose legal name was Jarad Anthony Higgins, experienced a medical emergency around 3:30 a.m. Sunday shortly after arriving at Chicago’s Midway International Airport, according to the Cook County medical examiner’s office. After deplaning from a private jet, the rapper was walking through the airport when he suffered a seizure and started bleeding through the mouth, witnesses and law enforcement sources told TMZ. He was brought to the hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Rapper Lil Yachty — who featured the artist on “Yacht Club — mourned his death Sunday in a tweet. “Wow, I can not believe this,” he wrote on Twitter. “Rip my brother juice world.” Singer Camilla Cabello paid tribute with a single emoji — a broken heart — and YouTuber FaZe Banks shared a touching screenshot of some of his final conversations with Juice WRLD. “I love you brother,” Banks wrote. “Watching you come up was special. We lost the best one today. Rest In Peace player.” Ski Mask the Slump God, a rapper and close collaborator, posted a photo of them together Sunday on Instagram in an emotional tribute. “I Love You So Much. You Didn’t Deserve This,” he wrote. “I Cant Explain How Much It Hurts Me To Lose You.. Rest In Peace You Know I’ll Carry Your Energy Forever !!!!!!!! I Can’t Lose Any More Brothers.” No cause of death has been released for the “All Girls Are The Same” rapper, who was named the top new artist this year at the Billboard Music Awards. Source: New York Post Vanguard News Juice Wrld, the talented young rapper and singer whose career was just taking off, is dead after suffering a seizure in Chicago's Midway airport Juice's flight from California landed early Sunday morning and, after deplaning ... witnesses tell us he suffered the seizure while walking through the airport. Law enforcement… December 8, 2019 In "Entertainment" Lagos, November 3, 2019 - Serial hitmaker Burna Boy has been announced as the winner of the Best Africa Act award at the 2019 MTV EMA’s. November 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" Grammy-winning rap star Lil Wayne was taken to hospital on Sunday after suffering a seizure and being found unconscious in his Chicago hotel room, TMZ said on its web site. September 4, 2017 In "Entertainment"