Swiss food giant Nestle wrapped up Monday a huge share buyback programme launched in 2017 and confirmed another is imminent as it pursues a shake-up of its vast brand portfolio. A Nestle statement said the group had completed a share buyback programme worth 20 billion euros ($20.6 billion, 18.4 billion euros) and would launch the next for the same amount on January 3. The first programme that began on July 4, 2017, has allowed Nestle to acquire more than 225 million of its own shares, which have been cancelled or are to be cancelled in the coming months. The next programme is to run from January until the end of 2022, the statement said. Share buybacks are often seen as a sign that a company believes its stock is undervalued, and as an efficient way to returning money to shareholders. But they can also be seen as a sign that the management does not see many profitable ways of helping the company grow further. Money to repurchase the Nestle shares has come from sales of brands that it no longer believes are essential to its core business. Nestle chief executive Mark Schneider took over in 2017 with a brief to get growth back on track after sales slipped in developed markets. It has sold off brands that include Haagen-Dazs ice cream and Herta meats and vegetable-based food products. In October, Nestle announced that it had finalised the sale of its skincare business for 10.2 billion Swiss francs. Schneider is working on a broad shake-up of the group’s global portfolio of 2,000 brands. Vanguard News Nigeria. Being Nigeria’s only established youth basketball tournament, it provides an avenue for budding talents to engage in the game of basketball competitively at a young age, provides a means and platform for social interaction among the youths of this country as they compete for laurels, provides opportunities for Nigerian youths… June 18, 2017 In "Sports" As the world all over marks “World Agriculture Day 2018”, Nestlé Nigeria PLC, the largest food and beverage companies in the region, joins the rest of the world to celebrate, identifying with its Creating Share Value (CSV) activities that empowers farmers across Nigeria and thereby contributing its quota towards developing… June 13, 2018 In "Agric" Removes 100 million wrappers of packaging waste from environment As part of its continued efforts towards environmental sustainability, Nestlé Nigeria has restated the need for continued consumer education on the collection and proper disposal of packaging waste. The company said on Tuesday in Lagos that it was in line with… December 3, 2019 In "News"