Lawyers for the son of former Angolan president Jose Eduardo dos Santos have denied that he tried to steal $500 million (450 million euros) from the sovereign wealth fund he oversaw, during the second day of his corruption trial in Luanda on Tuesday. Jose Filomeno dos Santos, 41, also known as “Zenu”, is accused of embezzling as much as $1.5 billion from Angola’s sovereign wealth fund during his 2013-2018 stewardship. Zenu’s lawyer Antonio Gentil Simao responded to claims of an illegal $500 million transfer to a foreign bank account that his client was “never in on decisions regarding the process” that led to the transfer. Jose Eduardo dos Santos led Angola for 38 years, leaving a legacy of poverty and nepotism after stepping down in 2017 from the top job in a country still recovering from a 1975-2002 civil war. Zenu, who faces a maximum 12 years in jail, is the first member of the former presidential family to be prosecuted. He is appearing at the Supreme Court along with three co-defendants — among them former central bank governor Valter Filipe da Silva — who also face charges of money laundering and embezzlement. Zenu’s half-sister Isabel dos Santos, reputedly the richest woman in Africa, was ousted as head of state oil firm Sonangol in November 2017 and is now being investigated for embezzlement. She has since left Angola — like most members of the Dos Santos family — because she claims she has faced death threats. Despite extensive oil, gas and mineral reserves, the majority of Angolans live in poverty and continue to rely on subsistence agriculture. VANGUARD The first major scalp claimed by Angola's new president Joao Lourenco in his war on corruption and nepotism was that of his predecessor's daughter, who was sacked as head of the state oil company. January 14, 2018 In "News" Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos confirmed on Friday he will not run in this year’s presidential election, calling an end to 38 years as head of state, but he will retain control of the powerful ruling party. February 3, 2017 In "News" Swiss authorities have released around 60 million dollars seized in an investigation into the suspected laundering of money diverted from Angola’s sovereign wealth fund and its central bank, federal prosecutors said on Friday. July 13, 2018 In "News"