The management of Peace Mass Transit has on Friday cautioned members of the public, especially social media users, saying they should be mindful of the sensibilities of persons involved in the accident, their privacy, families, and refrain from spreading salacious, untruthful accounts, unrelated to any reality. A statement released on Friday and made available to Vanguard media reads in part: “It has been brought to our notice that one of our buses and another belonging to GUO transport were involved in an accident situation on the Lagos-Ore-Benin Expressway, on Thursday”. “Accounts by official first responders at the scene had it that there were at least four fatalities and injuries to passengers in both vehicles”. “Further details are sketchy, while we can confirm that injured persons are in the hospital receiving treatment”. “We are also establishing contact with relations of affected persons on our side, as appropriate. It was an unfortunate incident which we deeply regret”. “We enjoin social media posters to be mindful of the sensibilities of persons in this situation and their families, and refrain from spreading salacious, untruthful accounts, unrelated to any reality”. “We are cooperating with appropriate agencies of government in their investigation to establish the truth and avoid a recurrence”. “ While we deeply regret the sad incidence, PMT remains committed to the safe and comfortable transit of her passengers especially during this Christmas season, adequate measures are in place to ensure that the highest standards are maintained”. Vanguard Ikeja Electric has dismissed insinuations that it increased electricity tariff to prepaid meters residents in Magodo Estate, without any prior agreement. August 26, 2019 In "News" The Ikeja Electric has been accused of allegedly increasing the tariff to an alarming rate without providing adequate power supply to the area and due consultation with residents of Magodo. August 22, 2019 In "News" LAGOS—IKEJA Electric has dismissed insinuations that it hiked electricity tariff to prepaid meter residents in Magodo Estate without agreement. August 27, 2019 In "News"