Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr.) Ifeanyi Okowa, has condemned in strong terms Tuesday’s attack on former President Goodluck Jonathan at his Otuoke home in Bayelsa. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika, on Tuesday in Asaba, the governor said the incident was disturbing and and unwarranted, noting that it was more condemnable because the former President was a peace loving man who always preached peaceful political engagements. He stated that Jonathan, had been a great patriot and a promoter of peaceful politics, and did not deserve to be attacked in his home town or anywhere else. “I join men of goodwill in condemning the attack on former President Goodluck Jonathan, who has been a great patriot and exemplary leader. “It is pathetic and shameful that unknown gunmen could attack a leader who had on several ocassions said his ‘ambition was not worth the blood of any Nigerian’. “On behalf of the government and people of Delta, I condemn the attack on our dear former President. “I also commiserate with him on the unfortunate demise of a gallant soldier who lost his life in the attack. “I call on the police and other security agencies to fish out those behind the attack and bring them to justice. “I also urge the Federal Government to beef up security around the former Nigerian leader,” Okowa said.  Elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, yesterday, said he was disappointed at the call by former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Danjuma (ret), that former Niger Delta militants should be arrested and prosecuted for warning that there would be war if President Goodluck Jonathan loses the presidential election on February 14.… January 30, 2015 In "Headlines" Jonathan condemns attack By Clifford Ndujihe Media Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Ikechukwu Eze, Tuesday, said a security post near the ex-president's home in Otuoke was attacked by gunmen He said in a statement: "A security post stationed near the Otuoke residence of former President Dr. Goodluck Ebele … December 24, 2019 In "News" Henry Umoru - Abuja The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, has condemned in very strong terms, the attack by yet unidentified gunmen on the country home of former President Goodluck Jonathan in Otuoke, Bayelsa State, in the early hours of Tuesday. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media,… December 24, 2019 In "News"