Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, stated that the turnout of people in the 36 states of the federation whenever he visits shows that majority of Nigerians understand and sympathise with him. President Buhari stated this during while he received the residents Federal Capital Territory (FCT) led by the Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, during the traditional Christmas Day homage, at the State House, Abuja said, he hopes history will be kind to him. ‘‘When I travelled to all the 36 states before the elections, what I personally observed and the number of Nigerians that turned up in every state to see and listen to me, are more than what anybody can pay or force. ‘‘What I saw made me believe that the majority of Nigerians understand and sympathise with me,’’ he said. He also reassured Nigerians that he was conscious of his duty as president. ‘‘I swore to hold this office in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and God willing, I will follow the system diligently to the end of my term and I hope history will be kind to me and Nigerians.’’ ‘‘We thank God. It has been a very successful year, relative to the composition of this country, both politically and ethnically,’’ he said. The president told the delegation, comprising religious, traditional and political leaders as well top civil servants and members of the press: ‘‘You are our eyes and ears, we have to listen to you and I hope you are encouraging your constituencies that this leadership means well and is concerned about them.’’ He reiterated that his administration would continue to do the utmost best to effectively utilise national resources to rebuild the country. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday declared 2019 as a very successful year for the nation, thanking Nigerians for believing in him and supporting his administration to take Nigeria to the Next Level. December 25, 2019 In "News" Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday declared 2019 as a very successful year for the nation, thanking Nigerians for believing in him and supporting his administration to take Nigeria to the Next Level. President Buhari while receiving the residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) led by the Minister, Malam… December 25, 2019 In "News" Last week, I congratulated President Goodluck Jonathan for managing the Ebola problem well; but I also expressed disappointment in his overall performance and said that I used to support him because he is a fellow Niger Deltan but now believe that it’s wrong to base electoral choices on ethnic or… October 31, 2014 In "Sweet and Sour"