Former military president, Gen. Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (retd), on Sunday, dismissed as false, reports of his death, saying he is alive and bubbling. The social media was abuzz with rumours of the former military ruler’s death on Sunday morning. However, his media aide, Prince Kassim Agegbua, said Babangida is very much alive. In a statement titled: “IBB is alive and bubbling,” Agegbua said “it has become a piece of consistent fake news for quite some time now wishing our own IBB, the one we easily refer to as ‘the last don’ of Nigeria politics, dead. The ‘fake news bill’ would be a suitable response to this category of fake news carrier. IBB is very much alive and bubbling. He just started attending to friends and associates who came to see him today, Sunday, 15th December 2019 right here at his Minna hilltop mansion. He is full of life and in his characteristic bubbling mood. “May Allah forgive those who wish IBB dead. God is the giver and taker of life, not humans. Death, as the irrevocable end of all creation, will surely come to everyone someday and at the appointed time and hour, but to deliberately spread fake news and wish someone dead, is to take humanity to another bizarre level. May Allah forgive them. IBB, by the special grace of Allah, the omniscient and omnipotent One, shall live to fulfill his journey and destiny in life, to the consternation of those who are always wishing him dead. This is about the third time this year. “We wish to thank those who took time to reach out to us, home and abroad, to find out the truth. We thank you all for your love, care, and concern. May Allah grant us all good health, sound mind, and a long life.” Vanguard Contrary to the widespread rumour that former Military President,General Ibrahim Babangida is dead, it has been confirmed that he is alive, hail and hearty. May 17, 2019 In "News" Former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, is 73 years old today. In this interview to mark the occasion, Babangida, fondly called IBB, speaks on some critical issues in the country, including the continuous detention of the Chibok girls by the Islamist group, Boko Haram, the power situation in the… August 16, 2014 In "News" Former Military President, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, yesterday, said he was not dead, but alive and in good health. April 25, 2016 In "News"