Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has approved the sum of N350 million as bailout fund as well as an increase in the subvention of Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Otto-Ijanikin, Ojo from N200 to N250 million. Special Adviser to the Governor on Education, Mr. Tokunbo Wahab disclosed this during a meeting with the management and members of the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) Adeniran Ogunsanya Chapter. According to him, “The bailout will be a form of relief to the management and staff of the institution for the payment of inherited debt, unpaid honoraria and personnel cost”. According to Wahab, the approval of the fund was also in response to the request of the management and staff of the Institution for funds to fulfil its outstanding financial obligations. While appreciating the Governor for his kind gesture, the Special Adviser said the management should use the money for the purpose it was meant for as well as for the growth and development of AOCOED. IPOB: ECOWAS court rejects Nnamdi Kanu’s reliefs against Nigerian govt https://t.co/FQAHJanPtZ #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/Ju48fEsKS3 — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) December 11, 2019  Wahab , therefore, urged the management and the academic staff union of the institution to render the necessary support to the management and the state government for the success and greater achievement of the institution. Responding, the outgoing Provost of the Institution, Associate Professor, Aina Ladele thanked the Governor for granting their request and promised that the bailout would be judiciously used for the progress and development of the Institution. VANGUARD By Olasunkanmi Akoni Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has disclosed plans of his administration to upgrade Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin, to a University of Education. Sanwo-Olu, unveiled this on Monday when he received the newly elected Zonal Coordinators of the National Association of Nigerian Students, NANS, Zone… December 9, 2019 In "Education" WITH an estimated population of 23 million people, Lagos has been in slumber in recent times considering the decaying infrastructure and slow pace of developments. August 30, 2019 In "News" The crisis rocking the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin, Lagos, has deepened with the state Governor, Babatunde Fashola ordering the state Auditor General, Mrs. Helen Deile, to immediately vet the institution’s accounts. November 25, 2014 In "Metro"