The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, said on Saturday that it would be impossible for anybody to use religion to divide Nigeria. The minister expressed the confidence at the Anglican Diocese of Lagos 2019 Centenary Cultural Day and Award Ceremony. The theme of the centenary celebration was: ”Stronger, Deeper and Higher.” According to Mohammed, performances at the event by different ethnic groups in the diocese are indications that the unity of Nigeria is not negotiable. He said: “What I have seen here today has again confirmed my belief in the indivisibility of this country. ”These performances have shown us how much we are united, as opposed to how much we are divided. “I want to thank the diocese for making me to appreciate the fact the church is playing a very big role in uniting the nation. “It is impossible for anybody under the aegis of religion to divide this country.” He said the celebration showed how much Nigerians loved one another. The Wife of Lagos State Governor, Mrs. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, said at the event that the church should be more committed to sound teachings of the word of God and strictly adheres to His commandments. She said that 100 years in the life of any organisation was not a small feat but called for a celebration. According to her, the diocese has been serving as a veritable platform to impact lives through sound teachings of God’s word and contributing to the growth and development of Lagos and Nigeria in general. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu commended the church for using the centenary celebration to conceive an initiative to address the housing deficit in Lagos through the planned Centenary City project on the Lekki-Ibeju-Epe axis. (NAN)  Vanguard  The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Saturday, expressed confidence that it would be impossible for anybody to use religion to divide Nigeria. November 30, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, on Saturday, expressed confidence that it would be impossible for anybody to use religion to divide Nigeria. The minister expressed the confidence in Lagos at the Anglican Diocese of Lagos 2019 Centenary Cultural Day and Award Ceremony. The centenary celebration had… November 30, 2019 In "News" The Federal Government has appealed to Churches and other religious organisations to use their platforms to propagate the achievements of the President Muhammadu Buhari led Administration. August 22, 2018 In "News"