Payments technology and card business in Africa, Verve, has extended their services to United Arab Emirates, UAE. WAHO strengthens capacity for accurate lab diagnosis(Opens in a new browser tab) According to the company, its Verve Global cardholders can now use their cards on Discover Global Network to transact in more than 185 countries and territories, including Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Interswitch Group Managing Director, Mitchell Elegbe, said that the decision to bring Verve Global to Dubai was a strategic one He said: “Dubai is an important destination of choice for business and leisure as well as being a popular destination for Nigerians. The transaction in Dubai comes following the successful launch of Verve Global in New York in August this year, and marks Verve International’s first entrance into the UAE region. “As we approach the Dubai Expo 2020, we believe this is the right time to expand into a region with a rapidly evolving payments market. The launch in Dubai will provide an efficient way for new and existing Verve Global cardholders to transact whenever they visit the region.” Customs seize smuggled rice, others worth over N43m in north(Opens in a new browser tab) Also, Chief Executive Officer, Mike Ogbalu III, said: “We are very delighted that a domestic card scheme of African origin can be used to make payments across the world. We express our gratitude to all our partners, particularly Zenith Bank and First City Monument Bank, who have joined us today. One of the biggest assets of Verve International is our partners (both those who are here in Dubai and all others). Thank you for joining us on this epic journey to plant our footprints all over the world. We are very confident that you will remain with us as we continue to take bold steps,” he said. Vanguard Verve International (‘Verve’), the leading African payment card brand, has announced its official entry into the Kenya market at a launch in Nairobi. November 1, 2015 In "News" Leading Africa-focused integrated digital payments and commerce company, Interswitch, on Friday, January 19th 2017, celebrated one of its pioneer executives, Charles Ifedi, the outgoing Chief Executive Officer, Verve International, with a befitting send-forth event. January 23, 2018 In "News" DUBAI, the commercial capital of the United Arab Emirates, UAE, has remained one of the favourite destinations not only for Nigerians but travellers across the world. Its world class hospitality has made it a preferred destination for Nigerians travelling out of the country either for leisure or business. February 24, 2017 In "Travel & Tourism"