The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Tuesday commended the Federal Government for ordering the release of the duo of ex-National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd), and the convener of #RevolutionNow Movement, Omoyele Sowore, as mandated by the Federal High Court, Abuja. In a statement issued Tuesday night, CAN’s President, Revd Samson Ayokunle, described the gesture as federal government’s Christmas gift to Nigerians. Ayokunle also said the release of the duo marked a new dawn for Nigeria’s democracy. He said: “We are very happy with the decision of the federal government to release the duo of Sambo Dasuki and Omoyele Sowore as mandated by the court. “We appreciate the Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice for his intervention and counsel. “The action of the government is commendable and it is a new dawn for democracy.” Ayokunle stressed that CAN would continue to work with the federal government to ensure that there is peace and stability in the polity as long as those in authority continue to respect the rule of law and the Constitution. “We will not cease to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari and his team for a successful tenure of office. Nigeria should be a pacesetter for the continent in everything good, being the giant of Africa in the abundance of human and material resources,” the CAN president added.  Vanguard     The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), on Tuesday, directed the Department of State Services (DSS) to release the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) and convener of the #RevolutionNow protest, Omoyele Sowore, from custody. The final documentation for the release of the… December 24, 2019 In "News" Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday urged well-meaning Nigerians not to get carried away with the Federal Government’s release of the former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) and convener of the #RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore, from detention. The Attorney General of the Federation… December 24, 2019 In "News" Following the 'combative' rearrest of Convener of RevolutionNow movement, Omoyele Sowore, by the Department of State Services, DSS, at the Federal High Court Abuja, Amnesty International Nigeria, SERAP, and other civil society groups have threatened to embark on mass action if the Federal Government does not release him unconditionally within… December 9, 2019 In "News"