BIC, the global stationery brand, is organizing its first continent-wide art competition tagged, BIC Art Master Africa 2019. The competition, which aims to foster local creativity, invites African talents to create artwork using the BIC Ball Pen as their medium. South Korean Ambassador counsels Nigerian poets on craftsmanship(Opens in a new browser tab) The BIC Art Master competition was first held in South Africa in 2017 and 2018. Following the success of the campaign in South Africa, the brand decided to expand the competition to include all African countries. Artists residing in Africa were given the opportunity to submit up to three pieces of art on the competition’s site until the 31st of October, for a chance to be titled BIC Art Master Africa champion. The platform has been open for the public to vote for their favourite artwork throughout the month of November. Yemi, Ojo, Country Business Development Manager said BIC was originally founded on one hero product, BIC’s Cristal ballpoint pen, that served as an essential tool for people everywhere. The competition will recognize two winners at a special award this December, including a ‘BIC Art Master Africa 2019’ winner and a ‘People’s Choice 2019’ prize winner. The competition’s champion will be selected by a panel of experts including Ghanaian artist and sculptor, Enam Bosokah; professor and designer, Hein Liebenberg; renowned artists and interior designer, Valerie Manouvrier; professional curator and art advisor, Herve Mikaeloff; and avid art enthusiast and collector and member of BIC’s founding family, Geoffroy Bich. The winner will receive a USD 1,000 cash prize, a personalized digital gallery space, and a chance to be featured as part of BIC’s art collection, La BIC Collection. The ‘People’s Choice’ prize winner will be selected based on the highest number of votes received by the public and will be granted a cash prize of USD 500 as well as a BIC Artistry Kit. BIC Art Master Africa 2019 will also look to recognize consumers who engage with the competition by selecting one ‘Lucky Voter’ of those that voted on the competition’s website and one ‘Lucky Influencer’ winner, of those that posted about the competition on social platforms using the #BICArtMaster hashtag. Both winners will be selected at random and will receive a prize worth USD 250 each. Lagos Fringe Festival comes with exciting shows(Opens in a new browser tab) BIC’s connection to art spans more than 60 years, as the brand has provided platforms for artists around the world find great inspiration in creating portraits, designs, sculptures, and installations from the brand’s iconic products. The brand regularly works with artists, designers, curators, and institutions around the world on creative projects and expositions. Last year, BIC hosted in Paris an unprecedented exhibition with 250 works by internationally recognized and upcoming artists, which captured the art community and took its audience on an immersive display. Vanguard BIC, producers of the Bic range of products, has concluded its Shave & Win promo with a final draw where loyal customers won pizes included washing machine, home theatres, bedside fridge, table top gas cooker, mobile phones, Plasma TVs, generator set and cash prizes ranging from N250,000 to N1million. December 26, 2018 In "News" The Managing Director, Nigerian Ball-Point Pen Industries, CFAO Group, Regis Trumuer has said that the group has restated its commitment to the growth of the Nigerian economy, saying the company has been contributing to economic growth since it commenced operations. November 7, 2018 In "News" LIGHTERS & Shavers BIC West Africa said foreign exchange restrictions placed on some items by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) along with product counterfeiting have negatively impacted on the company’s operations. September 28, 2017 In "Business"