Tobems Media celebrated her 9th-anniversary last week Sunday with clients, friends, and well-wishers. The multimedia and event production company is one of the fast-rising production outfits established to provide quality videography services for documentaries, businesses, and artists. Speaking on the anniversary, Mr Tosin Obembe, the CEO and Creative Director thanked his clients and technical partners for the support so far “Tobems Media was born out of a desire to create an innovative edge and make an impact in the multimedia space. What started in my living room as a simple videography venture has blossomed into a full-blown multimedia production and digital marketing agency. ” In attendance at this event were players in the event and entertainment industry including Akin Abiola-Peller representing Chairman, Aquila Group of companies and Honourable Member of the Federal House of Rep – Shina Peller, CEO of BroadwayAfrica TV and movie producer, Samuel Olatunji (Big Sam), actress Valerie Dish, Kenneth Igbomor of CNBC Africa and other client representatives. VANGUARD Jensine Larsen, the Founder of World Pulse, a global digital network which connects thousands of women from 190 countries, has advised Nigerian women to join over 60,000 other voices already building a global movement, by changing harmful cultural practices, launching businesses, and impacting 2.9 million lives through digital connection. June 24, 2018 In "Woman" Mr. Is’haq Modibbo Kawu is the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Abuja-based Word, Sound and Vision (WSV) Multimedia Limited, a complete media outfit that cuts across print, radio and television. February 3, 2014 In "Business" in a one-of-a-kind partnership to create a premium news and entertainment platform – Folio.ng. This exclusive affiliation will bring global expertise in content creation and digital publishing to Nigeria with localized context, working with an experienced on-ground team and a network of the country’s top business and creative talents. November 15, 2018 In "News"