Pastor Tunde Bakare has revealed that the last time he stepped into a banking hall for transaction purposes in 1985. The Senior Pastor of Latter Rain Ministry said the other times he had stepped into a banking hall would be either to sanctify a new branch. Pastor Bakare said the banks had always come to his home for transactions. “I am not showing off as you will call it, I am only provoking you to charge up yourself. “My mother was not a rich woman, but someone once told her that she would have bank accounts abroad and she laughed, but right now, she has a son that has bank accounts abroad. “These things don’t really have anything to do with education…” Speaking on the topic: A Healthy, Robust Heavenly Bank Account. The outspoken pastor impressed that he is qualified to speak on the topic because he is a “God’s banker.” Pastor Bakare said: If I can run bank accounts without visiting the banks, you too can. I don’t have two heads, neither does Dangote. Paying your tithe and offering doesn’t mean you have a heavenly bank account.” “If you think I am going to rush this sermon, you missed. I am going to go slow, after all, our president is ‘Baba Go Slow’ and I am his very good friend… “To store up a treasure in heaven requires a different approach. Holding loosely and sharing freely and giving away heartily treasure for God’s kingdom purpose,” Bakare said. Watch here:  Vanguard I ceased taking Pastor Tunde Bakare seriously ever since he lied against the Holy Ghost by prophesying (wrongly) that “Let me tell you the truth by the spirit of God, neither OBJ, Atiku, IBB and this tall one, Buhari are part of the new. They are part of the old… January 2, 2019 In "News" Senior Pastor and founder, Latter Rain Assembly, Pastor Tunde Bakare has declared himself as the 16th President of Nigeria and successor of President Muhammadu Buhari. September 23, 2019 In "News" Pastor Tunde Bakare of the Latter Rain Assembly is set to lock horns with other politicians for presidential race at God’s appointed time. January 2, 2018 In "News"