Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Prof. Ademola Tayo, has said he signed the expulsion letter of the female student in a viral sex-tape video in tears. The VC said the institution expelled the female student in the sex video to protect what the institution stands for. However, he said the institution was still in contact with the girl’s family and may take her back if she was repentant. You would recall that last month a video surfaced of two students making out in what was later said to be a hospital ward. The boy was said to have been expelled before the incident while the girl was expelled as a result of the video. Speaking during a luncheon with journalists at the Babcock Guest House on Sunday the VC said: “We had to take that decision in order to protect this institution and to protect its alumni.  Because anywhere they go they say the University where they are all prostitutes.  They said the girls are always swallowing …and all kinds of ridicule. If we keep mute, in the public opinion they would think that anything goes in the institution. We had to make a statement to show discipline. “But I need to tell you that I signed it off with tears in my eyes as a responsible father. But we are not leaving this young lady to her doom. The pastor called me last week and I prayed with the family. The father called me and said pray with your daughter.  I said she is still my daughter. Sometimes discipline is therapeutic. It is when you go that you realise that this is not right what I have done and then you go back to yourself. “I look forward to a time when this young girl would graduate and be celebrated. It may not be here; I don’t know where but we are not throwing the baby out with the bath water.” Tayo described the act by the girl giving the boy a blow job as abnormal. It is not normal for a young woman to take the manhood of the man and be swallowing. That is a very dirty thing which supposed not to be heard,” he said, adding that the institution had to apply discipline but with love. The VC, however, said some stakeholders commended the university’s decision to expel the student, saying that they would have pulled their wards out of the University. Tayo also described as mischievous a publication by an online publication that listed the institution as the third worst to attend in the country. “I see that as a sponsored campaign to smear the institution. I know where it is coming from but we will not relent because we will do our best to offer holistic education to the children. He said Babcock had achieved a lot with 36 fully accredited programmes and alumni who were making waves in various fields of endeavour, including the alumnus, Oladapo Oluwatoyin who made the overall best result in the 2019 bar exams, among others. Vanguard Nigeria News By David O Royal Nigerians have taken to twitter to share their different opinions on the immediate expulsion of a Babcock student who was involved in a sex video that rocked the internet on Tuesday. Most twitter users have disagreed with the management of Babcock University, Ogun State for expelling… November 21, 2019 In "News" Babcock University, Ilishan, Ogun State has confirmed the expulsion of a 300-level student found in a sex tape. The school authority explained that her partner had been expelled in February for various misconduct. In a statement signed by its Director of Communication and Marketing, Joshua Suleiman, revealed that the video… November 20, 2019 In "Education" P rof. Ademola Tayo is the new Vice-Chancellor of Babcock University. While unveiling his vision to transform the university into a total digital classroom and campus and for 21st Century learning experience for students, lecturers and parents, the new VC in this interview with Technology Journalists in Ogun State said… April 17, 2016 In "News"