The Lagos State Inland Revenue (LIRS), yesterday, directed all companies under the Pay As You Earn (PA.YE) scheme to register their staff before the end of 2020. Egwunyenga begins tenure as DELSU VC with thanksgiving(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking at a LIRS stakeholders meeting during the introduction of Enterprise Tax Administration Solution (e- tax), in Lagos, the Executive  Chairman, LIRS, Hamzat Ayodele Subair, said, “This will be necessary on the 2020 Annual Return Cycle as staff at the various locations and the designated call centres will be available to attend to all complaints and enquiries arising from your experiences.” According to him, the meeting was to recognize stakeholders support to LIRS’ drive to evolve a collaborative tax system that ensures tax payers transaction ease and convenience. He stated: “Our goal as regard this initiative is to develop a tax system that is seamless, electronic and user friendly where tax payers can interact with the tax authority and perform their civic responsibilities from the comfort of their houses and offices.” Giving an overview of e-tax, Barrister Akin Doherty, Managing Director, Alpha-beta Consulting, said: “The key features of e-tax are tax payer registration, pay roll upload, return filling, payment schedule upload, tax payer assessment, bill generation, payment processing, notifications and payment history. FIFA to take legal action to recover 2m Swiss francs from Platini(Opens in a new browser tab) “The benefits of e-tax are that it enhances taxpayer engagement, promotes transparency in tax filling process, provide flexible architecture for easy integration and enables the effective management of State/Enterprise-wide data and business rules.” Vanguard THE Lagos Inland Revenue Service, LIRS has directed employers to deduct Capital Gain Tax (CGT) from employee’s termination of service payments, which is 10 percent of the terminal benefits of employees. January 11, 2019 In "Business" In any language, growing the internally generated revenue of a state from N6billion to over N20billion monthly over a period of eight years must spell success. This is what the scorecard of Lagos State shows as the fruit of the re-engineering of its Board of Internal Revenue. April 20, 2014 In "Business" The Lagos State Inland Revenue Service (LIRS) on Tuesday sealed off four companies in the state for allegedly owing the state government about N173.8 million in tax liabilities. August 26, 2009 In "Business"