The Department of State Services (DSS) says circulation of a video on an attempt to rearrest Omoyele Sowore, the convener of the RevolutionNow protest in a courtroom was mischief. Dr Peter Afunanya, the DSS Public Relations’ Officer (PRO) in a statement on Sunday in Abuja said the video was meant to serve as propaganda to bring the service to disrepute. He said the statement was in response to the serial misinformation being circulated in the media on the involvement of the service in the incident that occurred on Dec. 6 at the Federal High Court. Afunanya said Mr Femi Falana, SAN, Counsel to Sowore had during the court proceeding informed the judge that he was suspicious of a move by the service to rearrest his client. He said the court discountenanced the suspicion, noting that the service was law-abiding and would not engage in the act. The PRO said it was on that ground that the court adjourned till February 2020. According to him, when Sowore stepped out of the court and sighted operatives of the service within the premises, he ran back into the courtroom. “In a bid to shield him from an imaginary arrest, his uncontrollable supporters mobbed him while chanting “you can’t arrest him”, thus the pandemonium that ensued. “A critical look at the videos in circulation would convince any objective viewer that there was no DSS personnel during the entire period Sowore crowd acted out its orchestrated drama. “DSS personnel were never, at any time, involved in the incident. In actual fact, it was his people who seized him,” he said. He said reports had shown that the court had adjourned peacefully before suddenly, the unruly crowd imported into the courtroom went into a frenzy on suspicion that DSS was sighted at the court premises. Afunanya said the eventual re-arrest of Sowore was effected outside the courtroom adding that his counsel had affirmed it. According to yo him, the DSS could not have invaded a courtroom including the one presided over by a respected Judge who is not only handling its case but whose order was unconditionally obeyed within a 24-hour ultimatum. He said the service hold the judiciary in utmost respect and would continue to work with it for national peace and public safety. Vanguard The action of the Department of State Service (DSS) to rearrest Omoyele Sowore surprised Nigerians considering the fact that he was released less than 24 hours earlier. DSS in a press statement made available to the media by its spokesman, Peter Afunanya said the convener of RevolutionNow Movement "resorted to… December 7, 2019 In "News" 'We only arrested him outside court' Sowore wants to destabilise Nigeria, agency insists Soni Daniel As the criticism continued to trail the alleged invasion of court and re-arrest of Omoyele Sowore of Sahara Reporters in Abuja court on Friday, the Department for State Services (DSS) has denied the involvement of… December 7, 2019 In "News" ABUJA - Department of State Services (DSS) has said that it is ready to release detained convener of the 'Revolution Now' movement, Omoyele Sowore. November 13, 2019 In "News"