human rights lawyer, Mr Femi Falana, has said Mr Abubakar Malami, SAN, Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, lacks powers to order the release of any detainee out of mercy. Falana was responding to Malami’s claim that he ordered the release of Omoyele Sowore, convener of #RevolutionNow Movement, and  Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd), former National Security Adviser, on compassionate grounds. Malami had said the Department of State Service, DSS, which had detained Sowore and Dasuki against court orders, was asked to release the duo not because of international pressure but on the grounds of respect for rule of law and compassion. But in a letter addressed to Malami, Falana said: “It is trite law that once a trial court has granted bail to any person standing trial for any offence whatsoever and the bail conditions have been met, the detaining authority shall release the person from custody without any further ado. “In other words, the refusal to release a defendant, who has been admitted to bail by a trial judge, is tantamount to contempt of court. Hence, before Sowore’s release we had filed Forms 48 and 49 for the committal of the Director-General of the DSS to prison for contempt of court. “The government is not permitted to refuse to comply with the order of bail under the pretext of defending the security of the nation. “Even under the defunct military dictatorship, detaining authorities were not authorised to incarcerate any person for “security reasons” in defiance of court orders. “With respect, the Federal Government has itself to blame for the needless controversy that has trailed the release of the duo. But having belatedly deemed it fit to review your position and advise the Federal Government in line with the tenets of the rule of law you ought to have apologised to both Sowore and Dasuki. “That is what is expected of you in accordance with section 32 (6) of the 1999 Constitution. It is not an occasion for grandstanding or arrogant display of power.” By Ikechukwu Nnochiri The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami, SAN, on Monday, said the Federal Government would be guided by extant laws in the way it would handle the case of detained pro-democracy activist and convener of the RevolutionNow Protest, Omoyele Sowore. Malami,… December 16, 2019 In "News" Human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), on Friday, asked the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Abubakar Malami (SAN), to withdraw pending criminal charges against his clients, Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare. Falana said in a statement that there was no evidence to get the… December 16, 2019 In "News" ABUJA — Detained former National Security Adviser, NSA, Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) and Convener of #RevolutionNow movement and owner of online media outlet, Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, were, yesterday, released by the Department of State Security, DSS, following an earlier order by the Federal Government for them to be freed. December 25, 2019 In "News"