A pensioner was left with shocking injuries when she was assaulted while handing out gifts to the homeless. Moira Norcliffe, 70, went to Huddersfield town centre on Monday to give out woolly hats, gloves, socks, currant teacakes, cheese and water to people living on the streets. The Good Samaritan – who had paid for the presents out of her own money – was walking down Brook Street when a man walked up behind and aggressively shoved her to the ground. He stood over her for a second before pulling his hood over his head and fleeing, with Moira believing he lingered ‘as if to see what my reaction would be’. Police were called and the retired medical receptionist was taken to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary’s A&E department with injuries to her face and hand. Moira said: ‘I was just going to turn into the Monday Market when these two hands came up behind me and pushed my shoulder blades and I went down like a sack of potatoes. ‘He was stood just a few feet away from me. It was as if he was wanting to see what my reactions were. ‘I only do it when I have a few spare pounds to give to the less fortunate. I hadn’t even told my husband what I was doing, I just blurted it out in the ambulance.’ Her partner, Peter Norcliffe, 72, believes the man ‘just wanted to hurt someone who couldn’t fight back’. He said: ‘He didn’t attempt theft or further assault. ‘Crime scene investigation team have visited to take photos. ‘We, the medical staff, police, friends and family are all mystified as to why someone should do such a thing.’ Metro UK Vanguard News Nigeria Zack is a 39-year-old I freak who runs a very high-tech cybercafe.  He also has this reputation of being a chronic womanizer – a fact he readily agrees to, blaming his sexual addiction on his father, he explains September 1, 2019 In "Diary of a Divorced City Girl" BENIN—FOR the second time in one week, pensioners in Edo State have grounded commercial actives at Kings Square and other adjoining streets in protest against the non-payment of their pension arrears ranging from 10 to 42 months. August 9, 2016 In "News" Owerri—Pensioners in the South East have called on the National Assembly to legislate on minimum pensions with a view to reviewing it upwards alongside workers minimum wage being presently considered. August 30, 2017 In "News"