Controversial actress and social media influence, Etinosa has finally opened up about her love life. The Edo State born entertainer has revealed that she is in love with a younger lover and he is endowed down there. “Yes. It is one of my best-kept secrets but I want to get it off my mind. I have been hiding my relationship for a while but my boyfriend has refused to hide it and I really love him. The truth is, I am dating a guy 10 years younger than I am. Our love affair started in a studio. He was so confident and I loved his voice. At first, I thought it would just be for fun but I grew to deeply feel something for him. Right now I am ready to marry him if he proposes. I love his energy, his vibe. He is so much fun. An older person would be more serious and less fun but my Morien is full of life. He is adventurous and serenades me right after he pisses me off,” she told The Sun. Speaking about enjoying sexual intimacy with him, she said: “At first it was a bit awkward but I don’t know, I guess, age is nothing but a number. Trust me. There is nothing small about him down there; he is huge!” She said: “That’s a big lie. The thing just tire me. The blogger also said my mum was ill. God forbid! My parents didn’t find it funny because they are pastors. They were pissed-off! In fact, it was because of them I tendered the apology just to make them happy,” she stated. Vanguard By Juliet Ebirim Nigerian actress, Etinosa Idemudia has allegedly found love in the arms of a younger lover. The controversial instagram sensation is rumoured to be having a romantic relationship with a young artiste named Christopher, who goes by Moriensounds on Instagram.The Edo-State born actress threw caution to the wind… December 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Etinosa Idemudia is a Nigerian actress, social media influencer, film maker and internet celebrity. The beautiful and playful engineer-turned-actress became the topic of social media discussion recently after a video of her going fully naked on singer, MC Galaxy’s Instagram live feed filtered into the internet. In this interview, Etinosa… May 25, 2019 In "Entertainment" Mention the word ‘bottom power’ and what comes to mind is the picture of a ruthless ambitious woman, ready to sleep her way to the top. And it doesn’t matter who with. Amanda, now in her 40s, was not born poor, so had no excuse all those years for falling… October 22, 2016 In "Yours Sincerely"