Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka has described the invasion of the court and harassment of Omoyele Sowore by men of the State Security Service, SSS, on Friday, as “African wild dogs on a pack hunt.” Soyinka, in a statement titled ‘Lesson from the African wild dog,” written by Lycaeon Pictus, urged “President-General Buhari,” to “rein in your wild dogs of disobedience. And for a start, get a trainer to teach the basic court manners!.” The statement read, “A few years ago, I watched the video of a pack of the famed African wild dogs hunt, eventually bring down, and proceed to devour a quarry. It was an impala, antelope family. “The pack isolated the most vulnerable looking member of the herd – it was pregnant – pursued it, until it fled to a waterhole which, for such animals, is the nearest thing to a sanctuary. “A few minutes ago, almost as it was happening, I watched the video of a pack of the DSS, bring down, and fight over their unarmed, totally defenceless quarry within the sanctuary of a court of law. “I found little or no difference between the two scenarios, except that the former, the wild dogs, exhibited more civilized table manners than the DSS court manners. “Only yesterday, in my commentary on the ongoing Sowore saga, I pointed out the near-perfect similarity between plain crude thuggery and the current rage of court disobedience. Little did I suspect that the state children of disobedience would aspire to the level of the African wild dogs on a pack hunt. “I apologize for underestimating the DSS capacity for the unthinkable. I reiterate the nation’s concern, indeed alarm, about the escalating degradation of the judiciary through multiple means, of which disobedience of court orders is fast becoming the norm. “May I remind this government that disobedience calls to disobedience, and that disobedience of the orders of the constitutional repository of the moral authority of arbitration – the judiciary – can only lead eventually to a people’s disregard of the authority of other arms of civil society, a state of desperation that is known, recognized and accepted as– civil disobedience. “It is so obvious – state disobedience leads eventually to civil disobedience, piecemeal or through a collective withdrawal of recognition of other structures of authority. That way leads to chaos but – who set it in motion? “As is often the case, the state, unquestionably. Such a state bears full responsibility for the ensuing social condition known as anomie. “It has become imperative and urgent to send this message to President-General Buhari: Rein in your wild dogs of disobedience. And for a start, get a trainer to teach them some basic court manners!.” Vanguard News Nigeria. By Clifford Ndujihe, Dapo Akinrefon, Ben Agande, Johnbosco Agbakwuru Egufe Yafugborhi & Chinonso Alozie ABUJA—The Presidency yesterday, in response to plans for a nationwide protest today, has said that the only way to change government in a democracy was through the electoral process. Sowore, Presidential candidate of the African Action… August 5, 2019 In "Headlines" Nigerian security forces on Monday fired tear gas as they broke up a protest calling for "#RevolutionNow protest" against misrule in the country after arresting the high-profile organiser. August 5, 2019 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, chieftain, Chief Sunny Onueoske has appealed to Professor Wole Soyinka and human rights activist, Mr. Femi Falana, SAN, to prevail on the Department of State Security Services, DSS, to release the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore. August 4, 2019 In "News"