Jamie Vardy believes Leicester have proved their credentials in the title race ahead of their top two showdown with Liverpool. The Foxes host the runaway leaders on Boxing Day aiming to close the 10-point gap. Brendan Rodgers’ men, second in the Premier League, suffered their first defeat since losing at Anfield in October after they were beaten 3-1 at Manchester City on Saturday. But Vardy insisted their belief remains as they look to hit back following defeat at the Etihad. “I think we were pretty confident in our ability, but we knew that we had to show that game by game,” said the Premier League’s 17-goal top scorer. “I think at the minute we’re where we deserve to be. “We just have to go into it the same as any other game. Like I said, we know we’ve got a lot of talent and a lot of ability and we know that we can hurt teams when we’re playing at our best. “We’re a bit disappointed with the result against Man City, but it’s all about dusting ourselves off now and getting ready for the Liverpool game.” Liverpool have returned from Qatar after winning the World Club Cup with a 1-0 victory over Flamengo on Saturday. They also beat Monterrey in their semi-final in Doha with their trip meaning they have a game in hand on their title rivals. Jurgen Klopp’s side have not lost in the league since January 3 and Vardy dismissed any suggestions their travels to the Middle East will have a negative impact. “I don’t think that comes into it at all,” he told the club’s official site. “Every professional footballer is obviously prepared to play games no matter where they are. “They’ve been on a plane, and I’m sure the recovery would have been done on the plane, so they’ll be fresh and ready to go. We know we have to be at our best.” Source: Football 365 Vanguard News  Leicester City forward Jamie Vardy struck for the seventh Premier League game in a row to help his rampant side to a 2-0 home win over basement club Watford on Wednesday. This was the seventh consecutive league victory that leaves them second on the table. Vardy, the league’s top scorer,… December 5, 2019 In "News" Jamie Vardy admitted he was relieved to end his goal drought and get Leicester back on track as the striker's hat-trick inspired a 4-2 win against Manchester City on Saturday. December 10, 2016 In "News" Leicester City coach, Claude Puel said midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi has been a major factor in the club’s campaign for the season and therefore deserves to be named Leicester City best player. March 11, 2018 In "News"