In a discussion with Andy Cohen, the 56-year old director revealed that a third movie may eventually follow “Kill Bill: Vol. 1” and “Kill Bill: Vol. 2.” “I just had dinner with Uma Thurman last night,” Tarantino said. “We were at a really cool Japanese restaurant. I do have an idea of what I would do with [‘Kill Bill Vol. 3’]. That was the whole thing, conquering the concept. What has happened to The Bride since then? And what do I want to do?” In the first two films, Uma Thurman stars as The Bride, a woman who wakes up from a coma with a mission to destroy the assassins who betrayed her. Thurman received Golden Globe nominations for her performances in both the 2003 and 2004 films. “I didn’t just want to come up with some cockamamie adventure. [The character] doesn’t deserve that,” Tarantino explained. “The Bride has fought long and hard. I have an idea now that could be interesting. I still wouldn’t do it for a little bit. It would be at least three years from now. It is definitely in the cards.” Tarantino also revealed that fans won’t get a movie from him before “Kill Bill: Vol. 3.” “What I did when I wrote ‘Once Upon A Time… In Hollywood’ was, normally I finish a script and we go and we open up offices, but I had more to do,” the director said. “I had more stuff in me. So I pulled it off and I wrote a play and then I wrote a five-episode TV series.” “To some degree or another, I’ve kind of written what I’m going to do for the next three years,” he added. “And then after that, I’ll get around to what the next movie will be.” Source: PageSix Vanguard News Hollywood disruptor Netflix dominated the Golden Globe nominations Monday as its heart-wrenching divorce saga "Marriage Story" grabbed six nods including best drama, kicking off the race for the Oscars. The streaming giant, which has spent billions to lure the industry's top filmmaking talent and fund lavish awards season campaigns, trounced… December 9, 2019 In "Entertainment" "Argo," which won best picture Oscar Sunday, tells the true story of a CIA operation to spirit six US hostages out of Iran -- even if it takes liberties with history, by its makers' own admission. February 25, 2013 In "Entertainment" Bubbly and beautiful actress, Bimbo Oni, who is also a producer and TV presenter has hit ten years in the industry, featuring in both Yoruba-speaking and English-speaking films. Some of her films are Omo Oshodi, Aworawo, Boomerang, Shades of Peace, among many others. July 8, 2017 In "Showtime People"