When Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State threatened to sanction the Amanayabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus Princewill, for an alleged unholy alliance with Bayelsa State governor, Seriake Dickson, it was obvious that the feud between both leaders is beyond disputed oil fields. Bayelsa COUNCIL Poll: Alaibe congratulates Dickson, PDP winners Wike, during a meeting with Kalabari leaders at the Government House, Port Harcourt, accused Dickson of entering Rivers against protocols. Wike said he was not informed when Dickson visited Amanayabo in Buguma, Asari Toru Local Government Area. He further alleged that the respected monarch was being used by Dickson to “divide” Rivers. A couple of days after, an Abuja High Court validated Rivers’ claim to disputed Soku oil wells when Justice I.E. Ekwo in a declarative judgement on Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/984/2019, transferred ownership of the said oil wells and accrued derivation revenues from Bayelsa to Rivers. Following the development, many had thought the last had been seen and heard of the Wike/Dickson face-off. Dickson had in his first official reaction to the court judgement, accused Wike of meddling in Bayelsa politics. Trading accusations Consequently, both governors have thrown caution to the winds, trading accusations and counter-accusations. According to Wike, rather than make further allegations over the disputed oil wells, Dickson has no option but to be lawful in the light of the court judgement. “Judgment has been given. The best Bayelsa governor can do is to appeal. You cannot heap your frustration on us. We have nobody to carry guns, so the best place to go is the court,” he said. On Dickson’s allegation that Wike was causing disharmony in Ijawland and underdeveloping Ijaw areas in Rivers, Wike challenged Dickson to a public debate on who has brought more development to Ijawland. Enugu council of Arts boss urges investment in state tourist potential Wike said: “What Dickson said was uncalled for. What disharmony am I causing in Ijawland? I am protecting what belongs to the people. It is the governor of Bayelsa that is causing crisis among Ijaw people by taking what belongs to Rivers. “He (Dickson) should go to Andoni, Asari-Toru, Akuku-Toru, Opobo and other Ijaw areas in Rivers and see what I have done. APC told Dickson to go to Rivers and see what is happening. Go to Yenagoa, what you see are heaps of refuse and only one road leading to Yenagoa. Became governor “Oshiomhole said he (Dickson) used N100 billion to construct an airport, but he said it is N70Billion. He is leaving office in the next one and half months and the airport is not working. Dickson cannot in all ramification compare with me in terms of development. I am constructing three flyovers. But in Bayelsa, he has no taste and has no class. “Let him come out and challenge me in a public debate. There is no local Government Area (LGA) in Rivers where we don’t have projects. Let him mention the projects he has in the eight LGAs of Bayelsa.” On Dickson’s allegation that he was interfering in Bayelsa politics, Wike said before Dickson became a governor, it was Uche Secondus and King Turner who brought him (Dickson) to receive his (Governor Wike’s) support. He said his Bayelsa counterpart was never committed to the Peoples Democratic Party,PDP, during the last governorship election. Buhari got 45 percent Wike said: “We are the only state in the Southsouth that President Muhammadu Buhari never got 25percent. Buhari got 45 percent in Bayelsa State. So who colluded with who? It is now that Dickson has realised that they played with him? “All those nocturnal promises were not kept. I challenge Dickson to ask his candidate, Sen Douye Diri the contributions I made. Is it because I didn’t pass it through him? Dickson projected the PDP to fail and he is now crying. He assumed the role of a god. Nobody could tell him anything. During his second term election, people resisted the army. This time, they left him alone. “You cannot accord former President Goodluck Jonathan respect. Simply because Rivers State honoured Jonathan, Dickson became angry. Dickson had concluded plans to join the All Progressives Congress, APC. Timipre Sylva and Heineken Lokpobiri prevented him. He knew I have strength, he would have consulted me. Dickson colluded with these people so that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, will not arrest him when he leaves office. I will protect the interest of Rivers.” PDP’s intervention On calls for by the national leadership of the PDP on them to sheath their sword, Wike said: “I don’t know why they are interceding. They have no power to resolve the issue of oil wells. The matter has been determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. “Anybody who is not satisfied should go on appeal. Are they interceding on behalf of someone who betrayed the party? They know Governor Dickson betrayed and sold out the party. They knew what happened in Rivers State during the 2019 governorship election. Dickson worked with my opponent. “Throughout that period, the National Chairman himself knows that people were calling from all over the country to know the situation. Dickson never called me. This was because of his alignment with the opposition. I can show proof that Dickson had already made up his mind to go to APC. Christmas: Group offers free healthcare to 300 persons in Kogi Dickson sold out “I am not going to sit with anybody to discuss anything as it relates to Governor Dickson. I have no business with Governor Dickson. In fact, Governor Dickson ought to have resigned from the party by now so that the leaders of PDP in Bayelsa would rebuild the party. The national leadership of the party should know that the only option left for PDP to be strong in Bayelsa is for Dickson to leave the party. “Where was the party when Dickson sold out? Why couldn’t they come out to speak out? Governor Dickson, you have killed our party in that state. What is anyone wading in for? I am not going to be a party to that and nobody will stop me. Nobody fights Rivers and gets any benefits out of it. I have said it severally. I am not here because of my interest. I am here because of the interest of Rivers. “The party would have waded in when the saw that Dickson was killing the party in Bayelsa State. He has achieved his aim by making sure nobody comes after him as he leaves office in February 2020. Do you know the implication of APC winning in Bayelsa State? And they are talking of wading in.” Vanguard By Omeiza Ajayi A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress APC in Rivers state, Prince Tonye Princewill has slammed the state governor, Barr. Nyesom Wike for threatening sanctions against the Amanyanabo of Kalabari Kingdom, King Theophilus J.T Princewill, Amachree XI, over the visit of the Bayelsa state Governor, Hon. Seriake… December 14, 2019 In "News" ***Alleges Gov Dickson's visit to monarch malicious By Egufe Yafugborhi - Port Harcourt Governor Nyesom Wike has urged Kalabari leaders to call to order, the Amanyanabo of Kalabari, Amanyanabo of Kalabari, King Theophilus J.T. Princewill, for hosting Governor Seriake Dickson of neighbouring Bayelsa state. Wike, addressing visiting Kalabaris leaders at… December 12, 2019 In "Politics" ... over Illegal Visit of Outgoing  Bayelsa  State  Governor Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has called on Kalabari Leaders to prevail on the Amanyanabo of Kalabari,  Amanyanabo of Kalabari,  King Theophilus J.T. Princewill,  not to allow himself to be used by external forces to create disunity in the State.… December 12, 2019 In "News"