President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday appealed to Nigerians not to do anything that will allow terrorists to break up the country. President Buhari in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu said if the citizens were not careful, the terrorists could divide the country along religious lines. The President was reacting to the execution of some Christians and Muslims by the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP). According to the President: “I am profoundly saddened and shocked by the death of innocent hostages in the hands of remorseless, godless, callous gangs of mass murderers that have given Islam a bad name through their atrocities “We should, under no circumstance, let the terrorists divide us by turning Christians against Muslims because these barbaric killers don’t represent Islam and millions of other law-abiding Muslims around the world. “As a President, the collective security of all Nigerians is my major preoccupation and the death of an innocent Christian or Muslim distresses me.’’ The President said the terrorists have no clearly defined agenda except the pursuit of evil through indiscriminate murder of innocent people, contrary to the teachings of Islam, which prohibits massacre. “No true Muslim would be shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ while killing innocent people, an evil frequently condemned by the Holy Qur’an.’’ “These agents of darkness are enemies of our common humanity and they don’t spare any victim, whether they are Muslims or Christians, and therefore, we shouldn’t let them divide us and turn us against one another. “The goal of these psychopaths is to cause confusion and spread distrust between Muslims and Christians, despite the fact that they aren’t representing the interest of Muslims or Islam. “While I condemn this evil, I wish to reassure Nigerians that this administration will not lower its guards in the war against terrorism, and we will continue to intensify our efforts towards strengthening international cooperation and collaboration to break the backbone of these evildoers,’’ the President added. President Buhari called on all Nigerians to be united against terrorists and avoid unhelpful conspiracy theories that serve the interest of Boko Haram terrorists and ISWAP.  PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari made a stopover in the United Kingdom after his visit to the President of the United States of America, USA, at the instance of his technical crew who decided to break the long US trip to refuel and do routine checks on the jet being used. May 3, 2018 In "News" President Donald Trump of the United States of America, yesterday, warned that his government would not tolerate continued religious killings in Nigeria. May 1, 2018 In "Headlines" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari made a stopover in the United Kingdom after his visit to the President of the United States of America, USA, at the instance of his technical crew, who decided to break the long US trip to refuel and do routine checks on the jet being used. May 4, 2018 In "News"