The Vice-Chancellor of Niger Delta University, NDU, Wilberforce Island, Amassoma, Bayelsa State, Prof. Samuel Edoumiekumoh, has said “his pride would be for the Ijaw nation to attain a time when nobody would tell us we didn’t go to school.” The university administrator was also persuaded that the Government of Bayelsa State, the rallying point of the Ijaw, has capacity to sponsor free university education for the entire Ijaw Nation and urged attention in that direction. Edoumiekumoh spoke in Burutu at the thanksgiving/reception party put together by the David Otutufegha-led Committee of Friends over the elevation of Ben Binebai to a Professor of Drama, Dramatic Theory and Criticism by NDU. Edoumiekumoh said: “We need Western education to be able to compete favourably with other regions. Ijaw youths should be focused on self-propulsion even where our parents may not have the wherewithal to push us on. “I became a professor at a young age even when my father had thought that if I go to school, I’ll die. These things hold us back. As youths, you should work hard to go to school. As a professor and vice-chancellor, powerful doors are open to me. I am shocked to know today that Binebai is the first Professor of Burutu town, an ancient community. We should strive to have, at least, one professor in every Ijaw family.” The NDU VC said on assumption of office, he engaged the National Universities Commission, NUC, on the inadequate admission quota of NDU then placed at 3,500 to raise it to 7,600. He said: “We are now begging Ijaw people to come to school. The NDU is also for all Ijaw irrespective of state. Please forward names of your wards seeking admission through Prof Binebai. Bring your children to NDU. Indeed, I intend a tour of Ijaw communities to canvass for students for NDU. “Since I became VC, we have produced 57 professors. We’ll produce more as they qualify. We have produced 80 associate professors and 47 senior lecturers. We won’t deprive deserving people promotions. We must set the stage for the time nobody will tell the Ijaw people that we didn’t go to school. That is my pride. “It is against this background that, amidst criticisms, I commend Governor Seriake Dickson’s establishment of two universities in the state. I insist that we even need more but my concern is proper funding. “I personally believe that as a way of moving the Ijaw nation forward, all willing Ijaw students need not pay school fees. We have the statistics and have done the calculations. It is possible. I mean students of the entire Ijaw nation across the Niger Delta, in tertiary institutions nationwide. It won’t be more than N3 billion annually. Taking that out of the annual Bayelsa State budget is a sacrifice that will beget a forward match for the Ijaw nation. Also speaking at the ceremony, Registrar of Nigerian Maritime University, NMU, Okerenkoko, Dr. Alfred Mulade, urged Ijaw youths to take advantage of the NMU, Okerenkoko, at close quarters to obtain a university education, stressing that “the Bible itself recommends that we study to show ourselves approved.” VANGUARD YENAGOA—THE Vice Chancellor of the Niger Delta University, NDU, Amassoma in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, Professor Humphrey Ogoni, has expressed concern over the poor funding of the institutuon by the donor agencies. July 28, 2014 In "News" Professor Ben Binebai says he bacame a graduate following six attempts at JAMB, stressing that the younger Ijaw generation "must be resolute, propel themselves like fingerlings of fish and believe God to fulfill dreams". December 29, 2019 In "News" Yenagoa—In a bid to save the Ijaw language from extinction, Bayelsa State Government has awarded scholarships to 110 teachers to study Ijaw at the state Niger Delta University, NDU. February 25, 2013 In "News"