The Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, has emerged 2019 Best Infrastructure Regulatory Agency of The Year for Nigerian Infrastructural Development Awards, NIDA. The award according to NIDA was for its relentlessly pursuit of the agenda of rapid deployment of telecom infrastructure in Nigeria. NTITA to reward excellence in Nigeria’s ICT industry NIDA said the regulatory body deserves the award for the robust approach it has deployed in managing the complex Nigerian telecom ecosystems which has successfully stimulated the development of basic telecom infrastructure in Nigeria. Also, Mainone Cable Company Nigeria Ltd, clinched The Telecom Infrastructure Company of The Year. The Awards to the NCC and Mainone were announced at the award ceremony in Lagos recently. 2023: I’ll use law enforcement agencies to ensure, free, fair polls – Buhari The organizers of the Award and publishers of the Nigerian Infrastructure Development magazine explained that the two institutions’ role and performances have redefined telecom and digital businesses both in Nigeria and on the West African Coast. Vanguard Minister of Transport and Aviation, Rotimi Amaechi, Honourable Minister of Works, Power and Housing Mr. Babatunde Fashola SAN, Senator Olabiyi Durojaye, Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission and Chief John Edozien,former Permanent Secretary in the federal Ministry of Planning and former Chairman of the Securities and Exchange commission, SEC, are… November 22, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Communication and Technology, Mrs. Omobola Johnson has thumbed up for the nation's telecommunications industry, saying that the sector, in just ten years, has exceeded the contribution of manufacturing, banking and solid minerals put together with a total contribution of 8.2% to the nation's gross domestic product. August 17, 2011 In "Technology" Stakeholders who gathered at the just concluded maiden edition of the Nigerian Infrastructure Development Awards NIDA, held in Lagos have emphasised the need for rapid infrastructural development across the country to ensure national development. December 11, 2018 In "Homes & Property"