Legendary Zimbabwean and Liverpool goalkeeper, Bruce Grobbelaar has revealed the bizarre reason why he believes his former club will go on to win the Premier League title this season. Grobbelaar, known for his lively character and fiery personality, opened up on a secret prior to Liverpool’s Premier League clash with Watford on Saturday lunchtime. The 62-year-old recounted a story in which he claimed a curse had been placed on Anfield, before he was able to lift it in the most unusual of methods. “I had a testimonial in 1992 and I was sponsored by Zambezi lager and they sent a witchdoctor with the lager,” Grobbelaar began. “He went around on the posts and put his goat’s tail, put his water on the posts of both sides, got the microphone and said, “If you don’t have the jungle man Bruce Grobbelaar here, you won’t win the title”. “Of course, I went back to South Africa, went to Canada, came back. Remember when Stevie G, he slipped? One night game I went down to the Kop end, I peed on the posts. “That breaks the spell. I got thrown out. I didn’t do the Anfield Road and we finished second.” Undeterred, however, Grobbelaar was determined to carry out his task and complete his urinating mission. “I fulfilled my task. Last season I played in a corporate game here, we were in the dressing room and the guy said “you have to do the business today”. “I said, “okay”. I took a water bottle, poured the water out, peed in the bottle, came back,” he added. “First-half at the Kop end, I splashed it all over the posts. Second-half, I came down to the Anfield Road end and splashed it all over the posts. End of last season,” Grobbelaar concluded to fits of laughter in the BT Sport studio, according to DailyMail UK report, Whether Grobbelaar’s strange intervention will pay off still remains to be seen, though Jurgen Klopp’s Reds continue their meteoric rise in the English top flight. Liverpool are unbeaten heading into the Christmas period, with an eight-point lead over second-placed Leicester and 11 points over rivals Manchester City. Grobbelaar made 626 appearances for the Reds in a glittering 14-year career, in which he won six First Division titles, three FA Cups and three League Cups as well as playing a starring role in the 1984 European Cup final victory. Vanguard News Nigeria. Former Liverpool goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar has spoken about how football "saved" him after his horrific experiences as a soldier in the Rhodesian army, also recounting the trauma of the Heysel and Hillsborough disasters during his playing days. October 2, 2018 In "Sports" Liverpool's Salah aims to shoot down Roma in Champions League semi April 24, 2018 In "Sports" Manchester United ignited the Premier League title race with a victory over leaders Chelsea, who are starting to feel the heat from red-hot Tottenham. Liverpool and Manchester City remain on course for top four finishes. April 16, 2017 In "Sports"