Technology Company, OPPO, has said it will invest seven billion dollars in research and development to develop core technologies for the next three years. Why Africans in the diaspora need to invest in Nigeria- Dabiri-Erewa The company revealed the plan at its Innovation day 2019, in Shenzhen recently, themed ‘Create beyond Boundaries’. Founder and CEO of the company, Mr. Tony Chen gave insights and initiatives of the company for the era of intelligent connectivity. He said: “Over the next three years, an R&D budget of about USD $7 billion will be set aside to develop core technologies in hardware, software and system in addition to 5G/6G, Artificial Intelligence, Augmented reality, AR, big data and other frontier technologies. In his keynote speech, on the future of intelligent connectivity, Chen said: “In order to seize 5G opportunities, Oppo plans to implement three key strategies. For a start, the company will remain committed to core technology R&D to develop world-leading tech; second, we will build a multi-portal ecosystem of intelligent devices with smartphones serving as the key gateway; and finally, we will continue to rethink user service and optimize its content and service offerings.” Chen added, “we have been more than just a phone maker from the outset. In fact, smartphones have simply been a gateway for us to deliver a diverse portfolio of technological services” Breaking: Sen Smart Adeyemi defeats Melaye, wins Kogi west rerun At the event, OPPO also showcased a variety of smart devices including smart watches, smart headphones, 5G CPE, AR glasses along with key technological breakthroughs in areas such as flash charging, 5G, imaging and software optimization. The event served as a platform for industry experts, partners and key opinion leaders to elaborate on the future of technology. Vanguard It is difficult to predict the future of technology. However, with increasing innovations in the tech space, it appears simple to point at the direction it is headed. January 23, 2019 In "Technology" For the first time in the history of Smartphone technology, a multiparty video conferencing call was completed on a 5G network and the global smartphone technology giants, Oppo, said it has just achieved the feat. January 30, 2019 In "Technology" Smart phone makers, OPPO, shared some exciting announcements on the innovation behind its advancements in mobile technologies in 2019 at the ongoing Mobile World congress, saying debuting with 10x lossless zoom technology and industry leading developments in 5G technology, has  cemented its reputation as an innovator in the mobile communications… February 27, 2019 In "Technology"