The Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, Eket Field Office, Akwa Ibom state said it has sealed off no fewer than 40 illegal gas plants over unsafe practices in the state in the month of December. The Operations Controller, Mr Tamunominabo Kingsley-Sundaye made this known during a sensitisation workshop organised for downstream operators( Liquified  Petroluem Gas LPG handlers) in Uyo on Friday. He explained that 21 of the illegal gas plants were sealed in Eket local government area while 19 illegal were sealed in Uyo the state capital, and warned that the Department would not tolerate such unwholesome practice in the state. The Operations Controller said that the workshop  became necessary as the main objective was to abreast the stakeholders of the safety implications of their  businesses. “The emphasis of this workshop is on those people who are doing illegal refilling of gas cylinders and decounting. That method is not known by any engineering standard. People now convert high pressure 50kg cylinders to become vessel and put pipes that have not been in any control and start refilling smaller units in residential areas. “If they want to do resellers business, they have to look for shops that meet lthe requirements and get cylinders that are acceptable by the department and the department will have to inspect it,” he said. In his remarks,  state Chairman of Independent Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Mr Ubong Isong described the workshop as a welcome development given that safety was key in oil and gas industry. Isong who warned filling stations operators against discharging the products while at the  same time dispensing to the public, stressed, “The workshop will help the operators to know the ‘dos’ and don’tin the business of downstream in Akwa Ibom state”. Vanguard News The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Eket Field Office, Akwa Ibom, said on Sunday that it sealed 36 petrol stations in the state for various offences last week. February 25, 2018 In "News" By Chioma Onuegbu - Uyo The Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, Eket Field Office, Akwa Ibom state has sealed no fewer than 13 illegal filling stations in the state. The Operations Controller, Mr. Tamunoiminabo Kingsley-Sundaye who disclosed this to newsmen, said the filling stations were sealed yesterday in Uyo, Essien… November 6, 2019 In "News" The Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, said it sealed 60 petrol stations in the state between January and December last year. January 19, 2015 In "News"