After about two weeks of media silence,  the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has scheduled a live broadcast tomorrow, where he would pass his Christmas message to his people. Ogoni group presents book to end crises in the region Disclosing this in his unverified twitter handle, @MaziNnamdiKanu, the IPOB leader said that his tomorrow’s speech would drive home his message of hope that would slowly bringing Nigeria to a deserved end. “Owing to the now visible successes of our diplomatic offensive especially in the US in the past few months, I will broadcast tomorrow to drive home our message of hope that is slowly bringing Nigeria to a deserved end. Date: 24th December 2019. Time: 7 pm Biafraland Time”, he said. Recall that after the ECOWAS Court of Justice sitting in Abuja, had dismissed the suit he (Kanu), filed against the Federal Republic of Nigeria, alleging that he was tortured, assaulted and subjected to inhuman treatment by security operatives when he was arrested in 2015, Kanu had remained silence (incommunicado) in the media. I’m also victim of sexual abuse -TY Bello He however, spoke for the first time, boasting that his message would slowly bring Nigeria to a deserved end. SEE HIS TWEET BELOW: Owing to the now visible successes of our diplomatic offensive especially in the US in the past few months, I will broadcast tomorrow to drive home our message of hope that is slowly bringing Nigeria to a deserved end. Date: 24th December 2019 Time: 7 pm Biafraland Time pic.twitter.com/nk8VmWwYEz — Mazi Nnamdi Kanu (@MaziNnamdiKanu) December 23, 2019  Vanguard THE leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu has said that he was granted conditional bail to be “caged” along with the secessionist group. October 29, 2018 In "News" THE Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB yesterday expressed sadness over what it called  impending catastrophic end to Nigeria unless  Mazi Nnamdi Kanu is released from military detention and IPOB is allowed to conduct it’s referendum in peace. July 10, 2018 In "News" Trial Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja has granted the Federal Government the nod to shield identities of witnesses billed to testify against the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mr. Nnamdi Kanu. December 14, 2016 In "News"