Zambian musician and activist Chama Fumba was arrested Saturday for addressing an unauthorised rally in the southern city of Livingstone, police said. Police detained Fumba and another man as he attended a meeting on government corruption, said witnesses. “Chama Fumba and others were having a meeting with members of the public at a centre for Roman Catholic church without notifying the police,” Esther Katongo, a spokeswoman for the service, said in a statement. “Officers went to the centre and picked up Fumba who has been detained and arrested for the offence of unlawful assembly.” If convicted, he faces up to five years in jail. This is not the first time the outspoken hip-hop artist, who is also known as Pilato, has been arrested. In 2017, the Zambian activist and singer was previously detained with several others as they picketed parliament over how a lucrative contract to acquire fire engines had been handled. They questioned the transparency of the procurement process. Fumba was also arrested in May last year following an uproar over his hit song, “Koswe Mumpoto” (Rat in the Pot). Supporters of Zambia’s ruling Patriotic Front (PF) party saw it as an attack on President Edgar Lungu and his government. Right campaigners such as Amnesty International accuse Lungu of stifling the opposition and activists. The country’s opposition has also accused Lungu of increasingly authoritarian behaviour. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Zambian authorities on Monday dropped the case against a musician who was arrested over a bawdy song that lampooned the country's president as a drunk incompetent. July 13, 2015 In "News" Zambian police on Thursday released the leader of a small opposition party who is a fierce critic of President Edgar Lungu after one week in detention, party officials said. August 10, 2017 In "News" …laments assault on freedom of expression By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja A human rights organisation, Amnesty International, AI, Nigeria, Monday, disclosed that 19 journalists have been arrested and detained illegally in 2019, by security authorities in the country. This was made known by the Director, AI, Nigeria, Osai Ojigho, at… October 14, 2019 In "News"