West Ham has appointed David Moyes as its new head coach to replace Manuel Pellegrini who was sacked on Saturday. The appointment makes it Moyes’ second spell at the club. He was previously in charge during the 2017/2018 season. A statement by the club confirming the appointment reads, “West Ham United are pleased to confirm that David Moyes has returned to the Club as first-team manager. “Moyes has signed an 18-month deal and begins work immediately ahead of the New Year’s Day fixture with AFC Bournemouth at London Stadium. Joint-Chairman David Sullivan said: “David proved in his short time with the Club that he was capable of getting results and we believe that he will start moving the Club in the right direction once again. “We are delighted to welcome David back – he knows the Club well and he built strong relationships during that time which will be crucial for the work that needs to be done going forward.” On what the appointment means to him, Moyes said “It’s fabulous to be back. It feels great to be home. I’ve missed being here because I really enjoyed it. I enjoyed being around the stadium and I loved being in this part of the world and I missed the Club, so I can’t wait to get started. “I’m feeling very proud that I’m back here at West Ham. But I think more importantly I’ll be looking to see what I can do and what I can make improvements to, how we can get some wins with the players and how we can get some quick wins on the field as well. “I do believe that the squad of players I’ve got here is a better squad of players than when I took over before, so I am looking forward to working with them.” We are pleased to confirm that David Moyes has returned to the Club as first-team manager. pic.twitter.com/Y2fxo5hTCE — West Ham United (@WestHam) December 29, 2019 “I think there’s got to be a short-term goal for us just now to get the wins to get us away from the wrong end of the league and what we’re going to do over the next six months, then what we’re going to do over the next period as well. The start is really focusing on the immediate games.” Moyes has managed in the Premier League for 15 seasons, including a successful spell at Everton which earned him a move to Manchester United. VANGUARD Slaven Bilic was fired as manager of West Ham on Monday after the team dropped into the Premier League's relegation zone following another big loss. November 6, 2017 In "Sports" David Moyes has left West Ham following the end of his short-term contract, the Premier League club announced on Wednesday. May 16, 2018 In "Sports" Manuel Pellegrini, favourite to succeed David Moyes at West Ham, appeared closer to a return to the Premier League Saturday after his Chinese club released him. May 19, 2018 In "Sports"