The Speaker of the House of Representatives Rep Femi Gbajabiamila has said the closure of borders has created a boom for farmers in the country. He said farmers are “smiling to the bank.” The Speaker said the policy, has pushed Nigerian consumers to patronize locally produced food, especially Nigerian rice. Gbajabiamila spoke in Surulere, Lagos State, on Sunday at his annual End of the Year Grassroots Empowerment Programme, according to a press statement signed by his Special Advisor on Media and Public Affairs, Mr Lanre Lasisi. The Speaker said: “I must say the impact of closing Nigeria’s borders to foreign rice is yielding results. I am sure so many farmers are now smiling to the bank. The volume of Xmas rice sales made by Nigerian farmers speaks to the emerging culture of eating what we grow.” This is even as the Speaker provided cash grants to some 500 beneficiaries in his Surulere 1 Federal Constituency to help boost their businesses, which is part of his annual End of the Year Grassroots Empowerment Programme. 23 people also received cars as part of the Empowerment programme, computer business owners received Power generating sets and photocopying machines while students received laptops. “My vision and mission is that by the time we are done in four years, Surulere will never be the same again. That is an assurance. At least as of now, no fewer than 70 to 80 people in Surulere have become proud car owners in my time, and we will continue to do more. “This year’s edition of our grassroots programme focuses on small businesses in our constituency and to better the income of constituents in the year 2020. It focuses on ease of transportation, and it breaks the cycle of poverty. There will be a minimum of over 500 people going away with N100,000 to N200,000 each to enhance their businesses. “But I have put a caveat: there will be no disbursement until after Xmas and New Year. If you give somebody N200,000 now, he might spend it on Yuletide activities. So, the grant is for you to develop your businesses so that N200,000 will become N2m and then N20m if properly invested. “We are currently reconstructing Ibezim Obiajulu Street, Esther Dada-Adeniji Link road to Ishaga, Mery Eneli Street, Chief Bereola Street and the wholesome renovation of Elizabeth Fowler Primary School, Surulere,” the Speaker said While thanking his constituents for their support and the mandate they have been giving to him since 2003, Gbajabiamila said he would continue to work with the Executive arm to bring more developmental projects to them. He said the notion among some Nigerians that the current National Assembly is a rubber stamp of the Executive arm was wrong, noting that good collaboration between the two arms is always in the best interest of Nigerians. Gbajabiamila said it was for that reason that the 9th National Assembly ensured that the 2020 budget was passed in record time to return the country to the January to December budget cycle. “In the interest of the 360 federal constituencies across Nigeria, the National Assembly has returned the budget cycle to January to December. “This new discipline will increase economic activities and afford the executive to implement the budget containing nationwide projects within the full financial year as against limited implementation scope in the past. “People, critics and people of other parties have said the 9th Assembly is a rubber stamp to the Executive. They may have told you that too. “The fact is that the National Assembly is not a rubber stamp. This is a National Assembly that represents the interests of the people. The people of Surulere did not elect me to fight the Executive but to engage and collaborate with stakeholders to bring dividends of democracy. “This is a new dispensation. There will be checks and balances. There will be separation of powers. We will agree with the executive if we have to, and we will disagree if we have to. Our watchword is to protect the interests of the Nigerian people. That is the oath I and my colleagues swore to.” Vanguard Nigeria News Following the closure of the country's land borders to curtail excesses of smugglers and other illegal activities, the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, RIFAN, has declared that most Nigerians now eat fresh and healthy rice in their homes. December 9, 2019 In "News" Hon. Mustapha Shehuri, the Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development on Saturday reassured farmers on accessibility of better farming equipment and government support. Shehuri gave the assurance when he visited the Livestock House of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development in Kaduna. Shehuri said that the… November 2, 2019 In "Agric" Farmers in the South-West have mixed opinions on the Federal Government’s border closure, while some commend the initiative others decried it, describing it as ill-timed and insensitive. A prominent farmer in Ekiti and a legal icon, Chief Afe Babalola, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for the closure, saying it would tackle… October 25, 2019 In "Business"