As part of its transition programme, the Restoration Government of Governor Seriake Dickson has concluded plans to render an account of its eight years sojourn at Creek Haven, the state seat of power in Bayelsa State. The State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson made this known Friday at the monthly transparency briefing which held at the Conference Room, Ministry of Finance, Treasury Building, Yenagoa. He said the government has deemed it necessary to remind Bayelsans yet again, and for the last time what it did in the various sectors that has placed the state on a fast lane of development. According to him, “the one week programme which will hold as apart of handover ceremony will be tagged ‘STEWARDSHIP’ and will also provide a unique opportunity for the incoming administration to tee off. “The elaborate programme will equally serve as an appraisal exercise as commissioners and heads of key parastatals and agencies will take turns to make their presentations in graphic details.” The Commissioner added that despite some challenges, the Restoration Government did not shy away from its agenda of providing a new lease of life for the people. He attributed the success story of the government to the clear-headed leadership of Governor Dickson and his unwavering commitment to use public resources for the good of the people. “Through the purposeful leadership of Governor Dickson, Bayelsa has been set on an unstoppable trajectory of growth and development that will continue to be seen in the coming years. “The Restoration Government has indeed been one that has instilled decency and accountability into the governance of the state as never seen before. “Bayelsans should expect proper accountability of our stewardship during the programme as every Commissioner and heads of agencies will come before the people to present their scorecard,” he said. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Treasury, Revenue and Accounts, Mr Timipre Seipulou presented the income and expenditure profile of the state for the month of October 2019. He announced a total inflow of N19.86 billion comprising statutory allocation of N3.3 billion, derivation N10.47 billion and value-added tax N5.2 billion. Mr. Seipulou also said total deductions from the federation account stood at N6.8 billion while the capital and recurrent payments gulped N8.59 billion, giving a net balance of 3.567 billion. According to him, in September, the state government carried forward a deficit balance of N1.54 billion, thereby leaving the state with a positive balance of N2.027 billion as at the end of October. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Bayelsa Government has restricted the activities of herdsmen in the state to the Bayelsa Palm area. December 9, 2016 In "News" SINCE 2012 when Henry Seriake Dickson was sworn in as the Executive Governor of Bayelsa State, February 14 has been a special day for the people of the State. Being the day he took the oath of office during which he promised to rule Bayelsa State with honesty, love and… February 13, 2017 In "Viewpoint" THE leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party, Bayelsa State chapter has described the resignation and defection of Ibarakumo Otobo, the erstwhile Commissioner for Youth Development in the state, as an act of ungratefulness, immaturity and a lack of understanding of the policies and programmes of the PDP led restoration government… June 23, 2018 In "News"