Jose Mourinho says his time at Manchester United is “a closed chapter” and he is only interested in beating them when he takes his in-form side to Old Trafford on Wednesday. It is the new Tottenham manager’s first return to the touchline at United’s home ground since his sacking by the club last December. “This is a closed chapter for me,” said Mourinho, who has won all three of his matches in charge of Spurs. “I left the club, I took my time to process everything that happened, I took my time to prepare myself for the next challenge. “Honestly, United for me is in my book of experiences, it’s in my history book.” United are struggling under Mourinho’s successor, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, but go into the game just two points behind fifth-placed Spurs. “It is not for me to analyse United now,” Mourinho said at his pre-match press conference. “I analyse them as an opponent, how they play. How can we beat them? How can they beat us? For me, that is the important thing.” Mourinho is excited about the prospect of returning to Old Trafford. Yohan Blake lashes IAAF chief Coe for ‘killing’ athletics https://t.co/NhR1f9VeuN #vanguardnews pic.twitter.com/VqnWU7TfAP — Vanguard Newspapers (@vanguardngrnews) December 3, 2019  He said: “I feel good, I like to play big matches, I like to play against the best teams and go back to a place where I was happy. “I have a great relationship with the Manchester United supporters. I went back as a pundit and I was humbled by such a beautiful reception. “Tomorrow I go back as the coach of the team that will try and beat Manchester United. “I understand that what they want is the exact opposite of what I want. Of course, during the match I expect them to forget me.” VANGUARD Jose Mourinho says Manchester United's Ed Woodward texted to congratulate him on being appointed Tottenham head coach. The United executive vice-chairman sacked Mourinho from the manager's position at Old Trafford 11 months ago after they fell 19 points behind then Premier League leaders Liverpool. But Mourinho says Woodward is one… November 23, 2019 In "Sports" Jose Mourinho has broken his silence after being sacked by Manchester United, insisting he will be back in football and refused to blame anybody for his failure. December 20, 2018 In "News" Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho does not expect to add to his squad before the transfer window for Premier League clubs closes later on Thursday (1600GMT). August 9, 2018 In "Sports"