President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday submitted a list of 16 nominees of National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) for Senate approval. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the list of the nominees as contained in a letter addressed to the President of Senate, Dr Ahmad Lawan was read at plenary. Buhari wrote: “Pursuant to Section 3 Sub-section 2 of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) Act 2006; “I am pleased to forward for confirmation by the Senate the under-listed names of nominees for the positions of Chairman and members of the NAHCON. “This nominees are: Sikiru Hassan, representing Osun, South-West- Chairman; Abudullahi Magaji, Executive Commissioner, Operation Inspection and Licensing, Bauchi ,North-East; Nura Yakassai, Executive Commissioner, Policy, Personnel Management and Finance, Kano -North West; Momoh Imonike, Executive Commissioner, Planning, Research, Statistics, Information and Library, Edo, South-South and Halima Jibril, (Mrs), part-time member, representing Niger, North-Central. “Other part-time members are Abba Jatto, Bornu, North East; Garba Umar, Sokoto,North-West; Ibrahim Ama, Ebonyi South-East; Sadiku Musa, Delta, South-South and Akintunde Olayinka(Mrs) Ogun, South West. “Others are representatives of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) which includes: Shehu Dogo, Ministry of Aviation, Nura Abbarimi, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rabiu Isa, Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “Others are Zainab Sheriff, Ministry of Health, Aminu Yerima, Nigerian Immigration Service(NIS) and Ibrahim Ishaku, representing Central Bank of Nigeria(CBN). “The Senate may wish to note the names of representatives of the Jammatul Nasiru Islam and the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs will be sent to the Senate subsequently. “While I look forward to the usual expeditious consideration and confirmation by the Senate, please accept distinguished Senate President, the assurances of my highest consideration.” Meanwhile, the Senate has adjourned plenary until Dec. 4, after observing a minute silence over the death of a member of House of Representatives, Jafaru Illiyasu Auna. Auna, who represented Rijau/Magama Federal Constituency of Niger, died on Monday morning at an Abuja Hospital after a brief illness. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu  Buhari on Tuesday submitted a list of 16 nominees of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) for Senate confirmation. The letter containing the list of the nominees was read by the Senate President, Ahmed Lawan, at the plenary. Buhari wrote: “Pursuant to Section 3 Sub-section 2 of… December 3, 2019 In "News" ...Appoints Olakunle Hassan as new NAHCON Boss By Henry Umoru, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has written to the Senate, requesting  for the  Screening and subsequent confirmation of the Chairman and Members of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). The letter dated November 28, 2019, was read during the commencement… December 3, 2019 In "News" The Senate on Tuesday received a formal request from President Muhammadu Buhari for confirmation of the appointments of sixteen nominees of the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). October 29, 2019 In "News"