The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), yesterday, rolled out the electronic Nigerian passport with options of 5 years and 10 years validity. Use social media for development, Activist urges youths(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking at the Roll-Out ceremony at Alausa passport office, the Comptroller of Immigration, Lagos State Command, CIS Ekpedeme King, said the new development was in keeping with global best practice. The Comptroller General, NIS, Muhammad Babandede, disclosed that the technology behind the passport is the most recent in terms of security features and biometrics according to the standards of the international Civil Aviation Organisation. Babandede, who was represented by CIS Helen Onwuzulike, said ”one of the most significant differences between the passport they are rolling out today and the existing one is the Supplemented Access Control (SAC). US seizes jet allegedly belonging to Nigerian involved in fraud scheme(Opens in a new browser tab) “SAC is the latest set of security features on e-passports as prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation to further strengthen the security of electronic travel documents globally. Another notable difference worth mentioning is the Polycarbonated Data page with Laser printing as against the existing passport which is printed with ink on hard paper. As a result of this improvement, the enhanced e-passport is water resistant”. Vanguard THE Comptroller General (CG) of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, has said the enhanced e-passport is acceptable and valid for entering all countries. September 5, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) says it will soon introduce various categories of visas for the country as part of its visa reform. The Comptroller General of Immigration (CGI) Mohammad Babandede disclosed this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Benin. ALSO READ: THREE YEARS ON BENIN… October 28, 2019 In "News" Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) scheduled December 2018 for the commencement for the issuance of Nigerian Passport with 10 years validity. October 16, 2018 In "News"