The Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, has chided the members of the Edo Peoples Movement (EPM) who are resident in Abuja and claiming to be in control of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, stressing that genuine Edo APC members reside and are popular with the ordinary Edo people. Osagie was reacting to a statement credited to Col. David Imuse, alleging that Governor Obaseki is trying to destroy the APC in the state. The governor’s aide said unlike the EPM members, true and genuine Edo APC members are not annexed in Abuja under the supervision of a godfather. He said: “For the records, these people who reside and speak from their self-exile in Abuja are not members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State as genuine Edo APC members reside and walk freely on the streets. They not annexed in Abuja under the control and supervision of a godfather.” Crusoe added, “Governor Obaseki, who is firmly in control of the APC in Edo State is resident in the state, among other genuine APC members. He is providing effective leadership for the party with the firm support of the people and therefore has no need whatsoever to leave the party.” Vanguard By Ozioruva Aliu, Benin City The Chairman, Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC), Col David Imuse (rtd) has raised alarm that suspected thugs have been brought into the state to unleash attack on him as he plans to resume in the state Secretariat of the party following the ratification of… November 17, 2019 In "News" The Edo Peoples Movement (EPM), a political group within the Edo State All Progressives Congress (APC), has urged Governor Godwin Obaseki to issue a fresh proclamation letter so that the State House of Assembly will be properly inaugurated. September 5, 2019 In "News" ABUJA — Faced with a tough  battle at home with his governor over control of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Edo State, National Chairman of the ruling party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has his hands full as APC governors move against him from Abuja. November 14, 2019 In "News"