The Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Abdulrosheed Adewale and his queen, Ms Chanel Chin have both separated. It was gathered that the wife and the monarch have been finding it difficult to reconcile over some matrimonial issues. However, a statement issued by the media aide to the monarch, Alli Ibraheem on Sunday, said Ms Chin has become an ex-queen to the monarch. It did not state the reason for the separation, except on irreconcilable personal differences. “This is to inform the general public most especially friends and associates of the Oluwo of Iwoland, His Imperial Majesty, Oba (Dr.) Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, Telu I, that Ms Chanel Chin is an ex-queen of his majesty”. “This information is necessary for the attention of the general public to avoid representation on proxy or accordance of respect attached to the sacred stool of Oluwo to her”. “For personal irreconcilable differences, Chanel Chin ceased to be his Majesty’s queen. We equally enjoin the public to disregard any business transaction or request with her using the office of his majesty”. The former queen Chin, is the daughter of Jamaican reggae star, Ludlow Chin also known as “Bobo Zaro” The duo met before the ascendancy of Oba Abdul Rasheed to the throne in Canada where he resides and later ties the knot after his ascendancy on November 10, 2015. Vanguard Oluwo of Iwoland, HIM Oba (Dr.) Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi has condemned the uncultured intervention of some Yoruba subjects on the recently crowned diaspora kings by Olugbo. May 7, 2019 In "News" In a bid to put the record straight and lay the controversy over Yoruba-Igbo ties to rest, a first class monarch in Osun state, the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba (Dr.) Abdulrosheed Adewale Akanbi, has said the founding father of Yoruba, Oduduwa was never the last born to the Igbos prince… April 25, 2019 In "News" The controversial and flamboyant Oluwo of Iwoland, Osun State,  Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi Gbaase II, ILUFEMILOYE TELU I, who was installed Oba of Iwo town late in 2015,  yesterday, made history when he dropped the the title of Oba and declared his resolve to adopt the Emir title, a title associated… April 1, 2018 In "News"