Plateau State government has established the State Contributory Health Care Management Agency, PLASCHEMA to cater for the health needs of its citizens and achieve universal health coverage in the State. The Agency is among other things mandated to regulate the cost of healthcare and ensure adequate distribution of healthcare facilities across the 17 located government areas of the State. To achieve the mandate, the Director-General of the Agency, Dr Fabong Jemchang organized a five-day workshop for critical stakeholders who would work directly to develop a blueprint and operational guidelines as well as harness private sector participation in the scheme. Speaking at the event, Jemchang stressed that his agency, having been mandated to “regulate, supervise and implement State Social Health Insurance Scheme to provide universal health coverage for every resident of the State” would work to “ensure financial protection form individuals and families from huge medical bills and ensure equal distribution of health cost across different income groups.” He noted that out of pockets expenditure on health has threatened many citizens hence “the Agency is poised to strengthen health financing by pooling resources and through strategic purchasing, mitigate high out of pocket expenditure and poor health insurance coverage for citizens.” While maintaining the workshop is necessary to prepare those responsible for the attainment of universal health coverage with the required knowledge and skills, he tasked the stakeholders to give their best and enable the Agency function optimally and meet its deliverables and bring hope to the people. The workshop brought together professionals in the health sector, members of the civil society organizations, trade unions, the media, community and religious leaders among others to sensitize them on the need to embrace the scheme and ensure members of their communities key into it for effective healthcare delivery. Vanguard The Bauchi State Government has urged journalists and Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to disseminate accurate knowledge to residents on the state Health Contributory Management Agency. April 18, 2018 In "News" As a distinguished Senator in the 7th National Assembly, I was dedicated and devoted to the sponsorship of various bills to regulate, develop and manage the National Health System. Of particular interest were my concerns for improvement of the regulation, development, and access to health services through the following Bills… August 16, 2015 In "Viewpoint" Recently, a group of stakeholders from the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies, NIPSS, in collaboration with the Development Research and Project Centre (DRPC) through Partnership for Advocacy in Child and Family Health at Scale (PACFaH@Scale) carried out a study tour of health facilities in Lagos State. June 1, 2019 In "Health"