Kelechi Iheanacho has insisted he is happy at Leicester City despite his lack of playing time. The Super Eagles striker only made his first Premier League appearance last weekend against Everton as a second-half substitute, where he delivered a man-of-the-match performance. The 23-year-old set up Jamie Vardy for the Foxes’ equaliser before grabbing the match-winner with his last-minute effort to help secure a 2-1 victory for his side in the encounter. This season, the former Manchester City man has been limited to three appearances across all competitions and scored in each of the outings. Iheanacho has recently been linked with a move away from Leicester  to Premier League rivals Aston Villa. The forward has, however, maintained his readiness to continue with the Foxes and hopes to get more playing time under manager Brendan Rodgers. “No I am happy here, everyone is happy. The manager is a top manager who is friendly to everyone,” Iheanacho said, as per Daily Mail. “I don’t see the reason why anyone could want to leave. I think he gives everyone chances, there are a lot of games coming up “I believe in myself if I get the chance. It happens in football, sometimes you can face trying times or sometimes you can play. “It is a time I have to face in my life and just have to keep going. I just have to keep my confidence and be strong.” Iheanacho will hope to get a starting role in Leicester’s next league game against Watford on Wednesday. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Manchester City and Super Eagles striker Kelechi Iheanacho is close to making move worth £25 million (about N1.25 billion) to former English Premier League champions Leicester City. July 6, 2017 In "Sports" Manchester United will host Leicester City by 8.00pm tonight in the start of the 2019 English Premier League, and the Foxes boss Claude Puel has called on  Kelechi Iheanacho to score at Old Trafford and give Leicester a bright start. August 10, 2018 In "Sports" Kelechi Iheanacho's Leicester City career hasn't gone to plan so far but the arrival of Brendan Rodgers could potentially reinvigorate the Super Eagles star. April 11, 2019 In "News"