Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr John Oyegun, on Thursday spoke on the crisis rocking his party in Edo, describing it as “tragic and unfortunate”. Oyegun, who was first Executive Governor of Edo, spoke with newsmen on the sideline of the 22nd investiture of the Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) in Lagos. He said that the rift between Gov. Godwin Obaseki and APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomole, brought to fore the dangers of godfatherism in the nation’s politics. “When principles are involved in an argument, it is very hard to wade in, especially expecting that one party surrenders principle to another. “It is a good thing to mentor somebody, to have an elder, more experienced to help bring up the younger one. “But when you have mentored him, and he has attained maturity and growth, do not keep treating him like a child,” Oyegun said. He, however, revealed that efforts were ongoing to address the matter and bring peace to the party’s affairs of the state. Oyegun lauded the performance of the state governor and reiterated his support for the great stride the state was recording. Vanguard News Nigeria. Hon.Charles Idahosa, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress was the Political Adviser to the immediate past governor of Edo state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole for eight years. In this interview,Idahosa revealed how Oshiomhole turned the table against Chief Tom Ikimi who was already on his way to becoming the APC… May 5, 2018 In "Interviews" To allow political jobbers to rubbish such a statesman will have a multiplier effect of further pushing away ALL decent citizens from politics April 29, 2018 In "Nigeria Today" Erstwhile National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun has absolved himself of allegations of being behind the current travails of his successor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, describing the former labour leader as a master of the art of deception and author of confusion. June 2, 2019 In "News"