FORMER governor of Gombe state  and Chairman, Senate Committee on Marine Transport, Senator Mohammed Danjuma Goje, of the All Progressives Congress, APC,  Gombe Central has finally withdrawn from politics, saying he will not contest in any election at any level. Goje wins Gombe Central Senatorial seat(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking during an empowerment programme, tagged, ” Goje Empowerment Programme” at the Pantami, Stadium, Gombe state, Goje who noted that  he would however remain in politics, said, ” Therefore, having contested and won all seven elections in addition being a Minister for the country, I strongly believe that Allah (SWT) has been extremely kind to me . I believe not many Nigerians are so lucky and blessed. “It is in this light foregoing and having reached an advanced age, I wish to formally inform you that I  have decided not to contest any election again. For the avoidance of doubt , I will not contest any election at all levels. ” The former governor who noted that he would give younger ones opportunity to also grow and show case their God given talent especially in this digital age, said, “However, this does not mean that I will retire from politics far from that , I will continue to be active card carrying member of the APC and participate in all political activities at all levels except that I will not contest ” Goje who recalled how he ventured into politics, said, ” I  have had rare opportunity of contesting  and wining seven elections conducted at various National Electoral Commission . “In the second Republic during Shagari’s government, as a very young man , I contested and won election into the Bauchi state House of Assembly, in 1998 , I also contested and won election as a Senator for Gombe Central Senatorial district under defunct UNCP during Abacha’s regime. “I then in 2003 contested and won the governorship election of Gombe state , I was reelected in 2007, in 2011, 2015 and 2019, I contested and won three senatorial elections for Gombe Central Senatorial district.” Thanking the people of his constituents, Goje said , I have every reason to thank Allah (SWT), the people of my primary constituency (Pindiga Emirate), Akko Loca\ Government, Gombe State and indeed the entire country for giving me the very rare opportunity to rise from “grass to grace” as is commonly said. He said he would continue to support Gombe State Governor, Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya and his government. National devt: Corporate bodies urged to invest in Nigerian youths(Opens in a new browser tab) “At the National level, I will continue to be loyal and supportive of his Excellency, the President and Commander in Chief of Armed Forces, Muhammadu Buhari,  and the government, of course I will continue to be active and loyal member of the National Assembly under the leadership of the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, my loyalty to the party under the chairmanship of Adams Oshiomole is also unquestionably.” Vanguard IF Gombe Central Senatorial election is to determined by the people of Kashere community, the home country of the incumbent but out_going governor of Gombe State, Alhaji Mohammad Danjuma Goje, or simply put, by the members of the ruling People Democratic Party, PDP, then, not the former Senator Saa’d Mohammed… March 30, 2011 In "Politics" A former Governor of Gombe State, Sen. Danjuma Goje, has stated that the worst of the governors of his party, the All Progressives Congress APC is better than the best of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP. September 4, 2016 In "News" Largely, the 2015 contest had the trappings of the last governorship election in 2011 when the former governor, Alhaji Danjuma Goje adopted incumbent Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo as both his political god son and candidate for the office. April 13, 2015 In "Elections 2015"