The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said on Sunday his administration is highly committed to the Badagry seaport project. The governor stated this at the Badagry Integrity Awards 2019 organised by Badagry Parrot Prints and Publication in Badagry. He was represented at the event by his Special Adviser on Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Solomon Bonu. According to Sanwo-Olu, Badagry has been identified for the seaport project for the past four years. He said: “We are still talking to the Federal Government to perfect the deal because as of today, the heart of Lagos is congested and we need to decongest it. “Badagry has the land and we are still praying to the federal government to listen to us so that the project will start on time. “We are willing to do everything humanly possible to let the project start.” In his keynote address, the Bursar, Lagos State Polytechnic, Mr. Maumo Jinadu, urged the federal government to resuscitate the Badagry seaport project’s plan and make it a reality. Jinadu said the project would help the development plan of Badagry and Lagos. According to him, the construction of the seaport in Badagry is key to the development of the town. He said that the award was in recognition of his 27 years of work experience in Lagos Polytechnic, adding that the organiser did not request any money. (NAN)  Vanguard   The Governor of Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says his administration is highly committed to the issue of seaport project in Badagry. Sanwo-Olu made this known on Sunday at the Badagry Integrity Awards 2019 organised by Badagry Parrot Prints and Publication in Badagry. The governor was represented by his Special… December 29, 2019 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Monday called on the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to accelerate the process of giving approval to the State’s request to build two seaports in Lekki and Badagry. September 16, 2019 In "News" LAGOS—GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State and members of the House of Representatives, yesterday, urged the Federal Government to approve the operation of the Lekki and Badagry seaports in the state. September 17, 2019 In "News"