Mr Uche Nwosu, former governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA) in Imo, has commended President Muhammadu Buhari for rejecting the call for a third term in office. Nwosu, who said this in a statement issued in Abuja on Monday, said the president’s declaration demonstrated his commitment to rule of law, adding he also displayed statesmanship and patriotism. It would be recalled that few days ago, the president had, during the National Executive Council (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said that he would adhere strictly to the Nigerian Constitution by not attempting third term agenda. Nwosu said that those who were calling that the constitution should be amended to allow the president to go for third term were distracting the president. He called on them to allow the president to concentrate on delivering good governance for Nigerians. “l commend President Muhammadu Buhari for rejecting third term base on his statesmanship and patriotism and also asking those agitating for it to allow him to finish the good work that he has started,” he said. The APC has warned that it would expel any of its members projecting the call for a third term in whatever form. (NAN) VANGUARD OWERRI—DISCORDANT tunes  yesterday heralded the declaration of results of Imo APC primaries with Kogi Police Commissioner, Ahmed Gulak  who presided over the panel that conducted the primary  declaring Senator  Hope Uzodinma as the APC gubernatorial candidate. But in a twist, the secretary of the panel  went ahead and declared Uche… October 3, 2018 In "News" Imo State governorship candidate of Action Alliance, AA, Uche Nwosu, yesterday said that he is prepared to team up with the All Progressives Congress, APC, in the battle to win what he described as his mandate at the tribunal. April 3, 2019 In "Politics" OWERRI—DISCORDANT tunes  yesterday heralded the declaration of results of Imo APC primaries with Kogi Police Commissioner, Ahmed Gulak  who presided over the panel that conducted the primary  declaring Senator  Hope Uzodinma as the APC gubernatorial candidate. But in a twist, the secretary of the panel  went ahead and declared Uche… October 4, 2018 In "News"