With over ten years experience as a career banker and part time lecturer at the Lagos State Polytechnic, Isolo, Mr. Austin Adigwe has further brought to lime-light his multiple competence as he joins Nigeria’s gospel music industry with his debut album which he claimed would heal Nigeria of tears and sorrow. Lagos to commence 4th annual MSMEs exclusive fair on Thursday(Opens in a new browser tab) In an interview with Saturday Vanguard, he said his music was  a message of hope to the world, especially Nigeria. Excerpts: What is your motive of going into gospel music? I want to preach the gospel of Jesus which is the ultimate because life without Jesus is useless.  I have brought the message of freedom to the captives and the oppressed  and love to the world. Love is what will heal the wound and my music will heal Nigeria of sorrow and tears . My music is to inspire, motivate and bring solution to issues such as reminding that woman who thinks that she would not get her own children to remember Hannah and Sarah in the Bible. I wish to remind that man facing challenges about Job who later over came all his own challenges. That you are having challenges does not mean that God has forsaken you.   He is a great God, so you should call upon Him and challenge Him on all the promises He made concerning you. I want people to know that God honours His words because He said His words can never return to Him void. Why did you choose the gospel genre which does not yield money like secular music? It is just like asking me not to bear my own children because the world is overpopulated. Of course ,you should know that I am not into music basically for financial gains. I am a banker with the FCMB and I have worked in other banks.  I am also a part time Lecturer with the Lagos State Polytechnic, Isolo.  The message of God can never be exhausted. We cannot have enough of good news. God loves and  keeps ministering to the living souls. Only the living can praise the Lord . I am only passing a message of hope to because  a lot of things happen daily which I draw inspiration from.  My music is inspirational ,and it gives hope to the hopeless,  the needy and the oppressed. Lagos to commence 4th annual MSMEs exclusive fair on Thursday(Opens in a new browser tab) Nigeria is the centre of focus in this music , why? I called on God to heal Nigeria because of what we are passing through .We are facing difficult times and we need spiritual healing. Nigeria needs love and love is what we need to conquer all the evils and corruption in Nigeria.  Love is what we need to stop kidnapping ,armed robbery and killing. Love is what the politicians need to utilize the money meant for the public . The message of Jesus is very simple: love your neighbour as you love yourself and love God with all your heart. Once there is love , people would not go into kidnapping or killing their fellow human beings as if they are killing rams. I am reemphasizing the teachings of our lord Jesus. Secondly, I am encouraging Nigerians to be hopeful and not be  pessimistic. Nigeria is going through spiritual cleansing  .I compare Nigeria to Israel. The children of Israel passed through difficult times . They went into slavery in Egypt,  into captivity in Babylon and they fought many wars and they were confronted with many difficulties, but today, Israel is one country that the world wants to reckon with. Nigeria is like Israel; God will heal us and the world will sing a new song for Nigeria. Who are your targeted  fans ? My music is for everyone and not for a particular audience .It is for Christians ,Muslims and unbelievers. We all believe in God and the message is a message of love and hope .The message is a wake up call for the worship of God. It is only the living who can praise God. Why did it take you this long to launch into music? Music has been in me right from childhood . I am a devout Catholic , I grew up through the ranks as an Altar boy, a chorister and pianist. I headed the brass band of  Saint Anthony’s College in my town , Ubulu- Uku in Aniocha South Local Government of Delta State.  My music is inborn  but I needed to go to school first to acquire knowledge. I am now a Phd student at the Lagos State University, Ojo. I have a good job and I am married with children.  Now I can afford to do music without being distracted .If I had gone into full time music at a tender age ,perhaps I may have been distracted from education . What is your advice to the nation ? First , I will advice   youths not to be discouraged. They should have hope in God and not in drugs. The economy is bad but God is greater than the economy. I was once a youth and I went through hell. I went through lack and frustration in life but I held on to God and he gave me hope and inspiration.  .For our government ,it should do something that will help youths come out of frustration . They should create enabling environment for  youths to engage in entrepreneurship. Government should encourage investors  so that there will be employment for our youths . There should be social justice .The church should preach the message of love and not prosperity only while parents should teach their children morals and stop worshiping money.  There is so much moral decadence in our society mainly because of money. Rising musical act, Teni Apata set to serenade fans with live concert in Lagos(Opens in a new browser tab) We often forget to ask ourselves, that money or position that God has given us what did we do with it? When you consider all these, you will realize that everything is vanity. Vanguard I was born into a music family, basically gospel. My mom writes lots of gospel songs but that wasn’t what pushed me into doing gospel music. Growing up, I noticed that I was different, there were certain things my mates went through and somehow God saved me and I was… April 21, 2018 In "Entertainment" Buchi Atuonwu is a gospel reggae legend who once combined his singing career with a lecturing job. In this interview with Showtime Celebrity , he shares his experiences as a gospel artiste and some of the challenges he has faced in the past. June 29, 2013 In "Showtime People" I attended Pacelli School for the Blind after I lost my sight at the age of three in the sixties due to measles. I am now in my sixties. I took interest in music at a very young age. I started learning the trumpet, then I went on to learn… August 14, 2016 In "Entertainment"