Philippine President, Rodrigo Duterte has banned two U.S senators from entering the country, and threatened to require all U.S citizens to apply for a visa, his spokesman said on Friday. Duterte immediately ordered the Bureau of Immigration to deny U.S Senators Richard Durbin and Patrick Leahy entry to the Philipines, presidential spokesman Salvador Panelo said. The two senators had introduced a provision in the U.S national budget prohibiting the entry in the United States of Philippine government officials involved in the alleged wrongful detention of opposition Senator Leila de Lima on illegal drug charges. “Should a ban from entry into U.S territory be enforced against Philippine officials involved in – or by reason of Senator de Lima’s lawful imprisonment. “ This government will require all Americans intending to come to the Philippines to apply and secure a visa before they can enter Philippine territory,’’ Panelo said. He noted that Durbin and Leahy were imperious, uninformed and gullible for believing that de Lima was wrongfully imprisoned. “The case of Senator de Lima is not one of persecution but of prosecution, he said. “In fact, it is already being heard by our courts.’’ De Lima has been detained since February 2017 over allegations she received payoffs from jailed illegal drug lords when she was head of the Department of Justice. She has denied the allegations, and accused the Duterte administration of political persecution. Vanguard News Nigeria The Philippines has banned two U.S. lawmakers from visiting and will introduce tighter entry restrictions for U.S. citizens should Washington enforce sanctions over the detention of a top government critic, the president’s spokesman said on Friday. President Rodrigo Duterte will impose a requirement on U.S. nationals to get visas should… December 27, 2019 In "News" Four bodyguards of Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte were wounded on Wednesday by suspected communist rebels a day after the insurgents warned of attacks, authorities said. July 19, 2017 In "News" Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has threatened corrupt government officials with the prospect of being thrown out of a helicopter mid-air, warning he has done it himself before and had no qualms about doing it again. December 29, 2016 In "News"