The Management of Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti has dismissed a lecturer, Mr. Olola Aduwo, accused of involvement in sex scandal and two other workers charged with negligence of duty. Mr. Aduwo, a senior lecturer at the Department of Accounting of the institution, was caught in a 29-second video clip that went viral on social media allegedly trying to have carnal knowledge of one of his female students. A statement issued by the institution’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Bode Olofinmuagun, revealed that the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Edward Olanipekun, said the decision to send the erring workers packing from the University was arrived at on Thursday during the 135th meeting of the institution’s Governing Council, which considered, among others, the report of the preliminary investigation panel and the Staff Disciplinary Committee (Academic). Olanipekun added that the committees heard the cases against the randy lecturer, strictly followed all laid down procedures and gave him an opportunity to defend himself. He explained that Mr Aduwo admitted to the allegations and confirmed the authenticity of the report of the preliminary panels before which he appeared. Olanipekun said the Governing Council, led by its Chairman, Prof. Bamitale Omole, found the lecturer culpable of all the allegations levelled against him and subsequently ordered his dismissal from the services of the university with effect from October 7, 2019. In a similar development, the council approved the dismissal of two workers of the institution, Mr. Temitope Faleye and Dr. Adebanji Adegoke, with effect from June 7, 2019 and July 11, 2019 respectively for abandoning their duty posts. “The council, at its meeting of today, Thursday, 5th of December, 2019, having considered the recommendation of the preliminary investigation panel and Senate, as well as the report of the Staff Disciplinary Committee, decided that Mr. Olola Aduwo should be dismissed from the services of the university for gross misconduct with effect from 7th October 2019,” the statement reads in part. Olanipekun maintained that EKSU had zero tolerance for sexual harassment and would not condone any act of misconduct, adding that the university would continue to flush out bad eggs from the system. Vanguard Nigeria News The Management of Ekiti State University,(EKSU), Ado Ekti says it has begun investigations into allegation of sexual misconduct involving one of its lecturers, Dr O.O Aduwo. June 15, 2019 In "Education" A lecturer at the Ekiti State University, EKSU, Ado Ekiti, Dr. Olaleye Aduwo, who was alleged to have been involved in "sex for mark" scandal, yesterday, denied his involvement in the purported sexual escapades. July 16, 2019 In "News" A randy lecturer at Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, Dr O.O. Aduwo has been caught pant down while allegedly attempting to have carnal knowledge of one his students. June 14, 2019 In "News"