The ruling All Progressives Congress APC said the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has put a lot of Peoples Democratic Party PDP members out of their illegitimate job of looting the country, faulting claims by the PDP that 40 million Nigerians have lost their sources of livelihood. “For 16 years, several leaders of the PDP were having a bazaar over our commonwealth, in their reckless and senseless race to produce world’s highest number of billionaires whose only enterprise was stealing from the public purse”, the APC said in a statement issued by its spokesman, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu on Saturday. The ruling party noted that “during this period of calamitous heist, thousands of PDP members also held Nigeria by the throat, in an unpatriotic race to help themselves to our collective resources. The entire public sector in collaboration with willing players from the private sector was neck-deep in fleecing the treasury. “At a period of surplus, when crude oil price rose to as much as $140, successive PDP governments supervised a massive scrambling for cheap money. Alongside the fuel subsidy racket, diversion of counter-insurgency funds to PDP leaders and cronies, they awarded roads, railways, power plants, airport terminals, dredging of waterways, bridges, and many other projects that Nigeria badly needed, yet delivered nothing. The projects were mere decoy and conduits for looting the treasury. With billions of dollars stolen, the APC government inherited a decrepit country from PDP. “In the last five years, the President Buhari-led APC government has not only been putting these looters out of jobs, we are relentlessly working to recover our country’s stolen resources from them. We are glad that Nigerians are seeing positive results of the current administration’s efforts. Hundreds of looters are being prosecuted, assets illegally acquired and unexplainable wealth are being recovered, while a number of them are spending time in jail. Many more will be on their way to jail soon. A number of them are on the run and we are collaborating with the international community to bring them to justice. “Meanwhile, as we put the PDP looters out of jobs, we are creating the environment and other support structures for creating legitimate jobs. The outcomes are evident in the construction, manufacturing and agricultural sectors despite the fact that the country is earning far less than what was earned under the PDP. “Jobs are being created in many productive sectors. Our security agencies are employing more personnel to create jobs and to bolster their capacity to secure lives and property. The year 2020 promises much more in massive infrastructure, solid minerals, oil and gas, and industrialisation”, APC added. vanguard THE outcome of the March 28, 2015 presidential election and swearing-in of President Muhammadu Buhari as president, inadvertently, carved out peculiar roles for the two leading political parties in Nigeria. May 29, 2016 In "Politics" Who will take over from David Mark as Senate president? Is the All Progressives Congress (APC) ready for the challenge and will it have a smooth sail in its bid to install the new Senate president? Will the unity in the party be intact after a new Senate has emerged… June 7, 2015 In "News" Following the heels of Tuesday’s massive loss of prominent members by the All Progressives Congress (APC), the opposition, particularly the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is set to make further inroads into the fold of the ruling party. July 28, 2018 In "News"