A pro-democracy group, Akwa Ibom Democratic Initiative (AIDI) has absolved Governor Udom Emmanuel from the arrest and detention of a social media writer, Mr Michael Itok, who was arrested by the DSS. In a statement in Uyo on Friday 12th December, the convener of the group, Obong Henry Akpan said Itok’s case is a criminal case and advised those who are pointing fingers at the Governor, over his arrest to explore legal means to defend him instead of sponsoring malicious campaigns in the media against the Governor. The statement says Michael Itok was arrested by security following series of malicious publications he made on social media against the Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel “Michael Itok was fished out by the security agencies and interrogated and he, without duress admitted and confessed to being the author of the malicious and libellous materials and was duly detained by the appropriate law enforcement agencies. He is being prosecuted accordingly”, the statement adds. The group urges social media users and the “release Michael Itok” campaigners to leave Governor Udom Emmanuel out of their hate campaigns. Vanguard A political pressure group in Akwa Ibom state, Akwa Ibom Alliance for Democracy and Good governance, has called for caution against baseless and misleading comments on social media platforms concerning the arrest and detention of an online troll, Michael Itok, by the Department of Security Service, DSS. December 14, 2019 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja Civil Society Organisation, CSOs, Friday, demanded from the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to prevail on the Governors of Cross River and Akwa Ibom States, Prof Ben Ayade and Emmanuel Odom, to unconditionally release a journalist, Mr. Agba Jalingo, and a banker, Mr. Michael Itok respectively.… November 30, 2019 In "News" Movement 1960, a civil rights group in Nigeria, has called for the immediate resignation of Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel. ALSO READ: AKSU suspends 4 undergraduates over rape The groups were reacting to a suit filed by the state government in collaboration with the 31 Local Government Council… June 6, 2019 In "News"