Worried by the increasing spate of HIV/AIDs, An implementing partner, Achieving Health Nigeria Initiative (AHNi) is working  to identify  about 22, 000 unidentified and discover  HIV infected persons in  Nasarawa State. The move is to enable  the implementing partners support  the fight against the spread of HIV/AIDS  and to provide the needed  drugs to the affected persons in the state. The partners  disclosed  this  Friday at the end of a five-day workshop to develop 2020 annual operational plan on AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) in Akwanga Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. Dr Terfa Kene,
The  Institutional Capacity Strengthening Advisor of AHNi in charge of North-Central,  Dr Terfa Kene said they are working to identity the 22, 000 HIV infected persons who have refused to make themselves available  for test and treatment. According to him,  once such persons are identify, tested and place on drugs, it would go a long way  in reducing  the spread of the scourge in Nasarawa state. “If we are able to stop to spread of the scourge, it means that we are moving towards achieving a zero per cent spread,” he added. He therefore called  on the infected  persons to desist from self inflicted stigmatisation and appealed to members of the public especially health personnel to stop discrimination against them by not disclosing their status. On his part, Zonal Team Lead, AHNi North-Central, Olukunle Daramola  explained that  the workshop was aimed at developing the 2020 plan to tackle HIV scourge in Nasarawa State. He said that with this strategic plan for 2020, areas of challenges and difficult terrains that need more attention would be given priority to see that HIV is eventually tackle in the state. “With this, we will no where to intervene more through sensitisation, drugs and partnership with other stakeholders towards ending the spread of HIV in the state,” Daramola added. It would be recalled that during the opening ceremony of the workshop on Monday, Ahmed Yahaya, Commissioner of Health had  said the  state government would boost the fight with N1.8 billion. The Commissioner was represented at the occasion by Ishaku Abari, Permanent Secretary of the ministry. The fight against HIV in Nasarawa State is also supported by  other agencies such as Global Found, Catholic Relief Services among others. vanguard By David Odama - Lafia Worried by the increasing spate of HIV/AIDs, An implementing partner, Achieving Health Nigeria Initiative (AHNi) is working to identify about 22, 000 unidentified and discover  HIV infected persons in  Nasarawa State. The move is to enable the implementing partners to support the fight against the… December 13, 2019 In "Health" By David Odama Worried by the increasing spate of HIV/AIDs, An implementing partner, Achieving Health Nigeria Initiative (AHNi) is working to identify about 22, 000 unidentified and discover  HIV infected persons in  Nasarawa State. The move is to enable the implementing partners to support  the fight against the spread of… December 14, 2019 In "News" The United States Government says the over 20,000 persons living with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in Nasarawa State without drugs poses a big threat to the fight against the epidemic. December 4, 2019 In "Health"