The Speaker, Sokoto State House of Assembly, Alhaji Aminu Achida, says the loyalty of all the 16 members of the legislature elected under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) remains unshakeable. The speaker declared this on Saturday in Sokoto when he led his colleagues on a courtesy visit to the leadership of the party in the state. According to him, the epoch-making visit is aimed at strengthening the bond between themselves and the state leadership as well as its elders and local government officials. “We are here as members of the same family and all the APC lawmakers are formidably united in all the activities of the House. “We are routinely brainstorming in every activity of the house and we are one family. “I am also reiterating our unalloyed loyalty and our firm, sincere resolve to move the party and the state forward,” he said. Achida lauded the state leadership of the party for their invaluable solidarity during the election of the House Leaders. He stressed that “all that is being said are mere rumours as we are fully united and the APC is intact at the Assembly”. The state Chairman of the Party, Alhaji Isa Sadiq, commended the lawmakers for the unprecedented gesture and described it as historic. Sadiq described the visit as a homecoming and that the visit would further solidify the party in the state. The chairman urged the legislators to always carry along the executives of the party in the local governments as well as assist them when necessary. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State Friday night assented to the 2020 appropriation bill of N202 billion passed by the State House of Assembly. Appending his signature to the document, Gov Tambuwal gave kudos to the assembly members, majority of whom are members of the opposition political party -… December 29, 2019 In "News" In what appears like a political earthquake, 252 Special advisers and Special assistants appointed by Gov. Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state have resigned  their appointments. August 19, 2018 In "News" IN a bid to grab the leadership of the House of Representatives, chieftains of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and the defected PDP members are in a move to woo the Deputy Speaker, Hon Emeka Ihedioha, and other principal officers of the House. Sunday Vanguard reliably gathered that the move… December 22, 2013 In "News"