United States President, Donald Trump’s former press secretary was forced to apologize to presidential hopeful Joe Biden for mocking the candidate, who has struggled with stuttering after he touched on the matter during Thursday’s Democratic debate. The bizarre episode began under the glaring hot spotlight during the Los Angeles debate, as Biden — whos is not widely known as a stutterer — told the audience how people with varying problems approach him for condolence or advice. “They keep in touch with me, the little kid who says ‘I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I can’t, I-I-I can’t talk. Wh-wh-what do I do?'” Biden told the audience. “I have scores of these young women and men who I keep in contact with,” he said. The 77-year-old former vice president’s imitation caused a stir on social media as people questioned whether he was mocking individuals with speech impediments, had himself stuttered or was compassionately recounting a tale about a child he could sympathize with. “I have absolutely no idea what Biden is talking about,” former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders posted on Twitter. She was soon forced to apologize, however, after Biden shot back that he had “worked my whole life to overcome a stutter. And it’s my great honour to mentor kids who have experienced the same.” Admitting that she hadn’t known he had struggled with the matter, Sanders deleted her tweet and replied to Biden, stating: “I apologize and should have made my point respectfully.” The final prime-time debate of 2019 featured just seven of the 15 Democrats still in the contest six weeks before the first nomination ballots are cast in the state of Iowa in February. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Hunter Biden, acknowledging that his family name created business opportunities, rejected assertions by the United States President Donald Trump that he did anything wrong by engaging in foreign work in Ukraine and China. But Biden, the son of former US Vice President Joe Biden, conceded that he failed to take… October 16, 2019 In "Foreign" The third US Democratic party presidential primary debate held on Thursday was the longest of the year. However, several topics that the US voters were expecting to be discussed were left untouched, the Time noted. The Associated Press release described it as "Democratic debate night No. 3: Attacks and counter-attacks.… September 13, 2019 In "Foreign" Former Vice President Joe Biden plans to join the crowded 2020 Democratic field, declaring his candidacy for president nearly two years after he exited the White House alongside former President Barack Obama. Biden, a fixture in American politics with a distinguished career that reached into one of the most prestigious… April 25, 2019 In "Foreign"