A middle-aged commercial motorcycle rider identified as Oduola Gbenga has been arrested for abducting one Mrs Bosede Jimoh, 34 and killing of her five-year-old son named, Fadeyi Opeyemi after raping the victim. Gbenga was paraded by the Oyo State Commissioner of Police, CP. Shina Olukolu at the force state headquarters, Eleyele, Ibadan on Friday. The victims were said to have boarded the commercial motorcycle of Gbenga from Oja–Oba Market in Igbo-Ora, but the man took the duo to his house at Imeleke road, Igboora and raped the woman forcefully three times before daybreak. The suspect was also revealed to have beheaded the 5-year old son in another room with a cutlass, of which he claimed to have dumped the remains at a nearby bush beside their house. While newsmen were interrogating the suspect, he narrated that he wooed the woman before he took her to his house. His  words: “I have never seen her before, but I wooed her immediately I carried her on my motorcycle.” “I can’t explain how this happened to me, I have finished beheading her son before I realized my bad deeds,” he said. When asked about his marital status, Gbenga claimed that his two wives had left him sometimes ago. Meanwhile, the state commissioner of Police in a similar note assured the people of the state of a secure environment during the ongoing yuletide period. Vanguard News Nigeria. Ola Ajayi - Ibadan A 37- year-old commercial motorcyclist, Oduola Gbenga, who raped a woman and killed her five- year -old boy on Friday explained how he committed the heinous act. The suspect was among the other 19 criminals paraded by the Oyo State Police Command in Ibadan, the… December 20, 2019 In "News" A 22-year-old, Gbenga Oladeru, has been sentenced to one and half years imprisonment for stealing two motorcycles valued at N380,000. March 5, 2013 In "News" A 35-year-old commercial driver, Waheed Yusuf, married to two wives, paraded by the Ondo State Police Command for raping an undergraduate, weekend, said he will harm anyone who rapes any of his daughters. March 26, 2018 In "Just Human"