A Moroccan YouTuber was sentenced Thursday to four years in prison for “insulting the king” in a video broadcast on social networks, his lawyer said. In a separate case, a Moroccan journalist and activist was charged and detained over a tweet that had criticised a court decision, his defence council told AFP. The cases come after the Moroccan Human Rights Association had deplored in July an “escalation of violations of human rights and public and individual freedoms” in Morocco. The YouTuber Mohamed Sekkaki, known as “Moul Kaskita”, was sentenced by a court in the western city of Settat to four years in prison, his lawyer Mohamed Ziane told AFP. Sekkaki, whose videos usually exceed 100,000 views, was arrested in early December after posting a video in which he insulted Moroccans as “donkeys” and criticised King Mohammed VI, who is considered “inviolable” under the constitution. Ziani said his client would appeal the verdict. The conviction of the YouTuber came less than a month after a Moroccan rapper was sentenced to a year in prison for “insulting a public official”. Also on Thursday, journalist Omar Radi, 33, was detained in Casablanca and now faces trial, his lawyer Said Benhammani told AFP. He is being prosecuted for a tweet published nine months ago criticising the judge in charge of the case against the leaders of the Hirak protest movement, he said. In the first hearing Thursday, Radi’s lawyers requested his conditional release, which the Casablanca court rejected. The next hearing is set for January 2. Morocco’s criminal code punishes “insulting magistrates” with imprisonment of between one month and one year. The group Reporters Without Borders (RSF) condemned the decision to place the journalist “in detention for tweets from last April”. In its latest annual press freedom index, RSF ranked Morocco 135th out of 180 countries. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. A Moroccan court on Monday sentenced a rap star to a year in prison and a fine of 1,000 dirhams ($103) for insulting the police in a case that has prompted rights groups to voice alarm over freedom of expression in the North African kingdom. Mohamed Mounir, known as Gnawi,… November 28, 2019 In "Entertainment" A Moroccan journalist has been sentenced to one year in prison for premarital sex and having an abortion, in a case activists described as part of a crackdown on critical reporters.   Hajar Raissouni was arrested with her fiancé as they left a gynaecologist's clinic in the capital Rabat in… October 1, 2019 In "News" Two French investigative journalists were charged with blackmail for demanding two million euros ($2.2 million) from the king of Morocco not to bring out a book purportedly containing damaging revelations about the monarch, legal sources said Saturday. August 29, 2015 In "News"