THE Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, has placed the shares of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) on full suspension ahead of its merger with Obu Cement. The merger with Obu Cement, both subsidiaries of Bua Group, would create Nigeria’s second largest cement producer. NSE indices record first gain in December, up 0.19% The suspension, according to the Exchange in a notice signed by Godstime Iwenekhai, Head, Listings Regulation Department, NSE, became imperative to prevent trading in the shares of the company beyond the Effective Date (the date the Certified True Copy (CTC) of the Court Sanction would be registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) with regards to the Scheme of merger between the companies. The move, according to the company, is part of its bid to deepen the Nigerian capital market and enhance the growth of the cement industry. “With the consolidation and addition of the Sokoto Kalambaina II plant, this will bring BUA Cement’s total installed capacity across all its cement holdings to 11 million metric tonnes per annum (MTPA),” said Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu, Chairman/Founder, BUA Group. FG begs 222 families affected by cement coy’s environmental pollution in Ogun He stated that the consolidation would mark the culmination of the first phase of the BUA mid-term strategic plan for its cement businesses, which currently include four cement plants spread across Obu Cement Company and the Cement Company of Northern Nigeria. Vanguard Shareholders under the aegis of Constance Shareholders’ Association of Nigeria (CSAN) on Saturday said that mergers and acquisitions would improve cement industry activities on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Mr Shehu Mikail, CSAN National President, stated this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. Mikail… December 14, 2019 In "News" THE Board of Directors of Cement Company of Northern Nigeria, CCNN Plc and Kalambaina Cement Company Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BUA Cement Company Limited, have agreed to merge their businesses with CCNN as the resultant entity. July 2, 2018 In "Business" The shareholders of both Benue Cement Company (BCC) Plc and Dangote Cement Plc (DCP) have been granted approval by the federal high court to hold a meeting ratifying the merger involving both companies after getting approval from both the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) . September 23, 2010 In "Business"