Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has described the members of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) as psychopaths with the aim of causing confusion and spreading distrust between Muslims and Christians. ISWAP on Christmas Day executed 11 Christians in its captivity. The group has also released a video of the execution claiming it is “revenge for the killings of our leaders, including Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Abul-Hasan Al-Muhajir in Iraq and Syria.” Nigerian President, Buhari in his reaction said; “the goal of these psychopaths is to cause confusion and spread distrust between Muslims and Christians, despite the fact that they aren’t representing the interest of Muslims or Islam.” “No true Muslim would be shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ while killing innocent people, an evil frequently condemned by the Holy Qur’an. “These agents of darkness are enemies of our common humanity and they don’t spare any victim, whether they are Muslims or Christians, and therefore, we shouldn’t let them divide us and turn us against one another.” Buhari condemned the execution of the Christians by ISWAP members and at the same time assured Nigerians of continual effort towards strengthening international cooperation and collaboration to conquer the insurgents. “While I condemn this evil, I wish to reassure Nigerians that this administration will not lower its guard in the war against terrorism. “We will continue to intensify our efforts towards strengthening international cooperation and collaboration to break the backbone of these evil doers.” Vanguard News Nigeria. **Describes group members 'psychopaths' By Rasheed Sobowale The Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the execution of Christians by Islamic State of West Africa Province, (ISWAP) on Christmas Day. President Buhari said he is "profoundly saddened and shocked" by the action of the "psychopaths" and that "no true Muslim would… December 28, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday appealed to Nigerians not to do anything that will allow terrorists to break up the country. December 27, 2019 In "News" Joseph Erunke - Abuja THE Nigerian Army has maintained sealed lips hours after reports emerged that 11 captives in the den of Islamic State of West Africa Province, (ISWAP) were executed on Christmas Day. Neither the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) nor the Nigerian Army could react to the development when Vanguard… December 26, 2019 In "News"