There was chaos in Agbura, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Boxing Day, as a lady, identified as Joy Osain, decided to take her own life after her boyfriend, Eze Augustus, broke up with her. According to reports, trouble started on Christmas Day when Eze avoided her. She later went to his house on Boxing Day and allegedly found another lady there. The matter degenerated into a fight. It was gathered that Joy vowed that she would not be alive and watch another girl take her man. She later went ahead with her vow by drinking a poisonous substance which led to her death. Angered by the development, her family members stormed Eze’s house and destroyed it. The corpse of the deceased has been recovered by the police and deposited at the Federal Medical Centre Yenagoa for autopsy, while the boyfriend has been detained for interrogation.   Jilted lady allegedly takes her own life in Bayelsa . . There was chaos in Agbura, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Boxing Day, as a lady, identified as Joy Osain, decided to take her own life after her boyfriend, Eze Augustus, broke up with her. . . According to reports, trouble started on Christmas Day when Eze avoided her. She later went to his house on Boxing Day and allegedly found another lady there.  The matter degenerated into a fight. . . It was gathered that Joy vowed that she would not be alive and watch another girl take her man. She later went ahead with her vow by drinking a poisonous substance which led to her death. . . Angered by the development, her family members stormed Eze’s house and destroyed it. The corpse of the deceased has been recovered by the police and deposited at the Federal Medical Centre Yenagoa for autopsy, while the boyfriend has been detained for interrogation. A post shared by  Instablog9ja (@instablog9ja) on Dec 27, 2019 at 9:07pm PST  vanguard Several years back Nigerians were referred to as the happiest people on planet earth. May 26, 2019 In "Special Report" MAKURDI—A 19-year-old Junior Secondary School, JSS, 2 female student, Jessica Beer, has reportedly committed suicide in Makurdi, Benue State, after allegedly being impregnated by her estranged boyfriend. September 15, 2016 In "News" Some years back, Nigerians were referred to as the happiest people on earth. Unfortunately today, that has become history as a lot of people slide into depression and become suicidal. February 3, 2019 In "Just Human"