For the Aba, Abia State-born Ndukwe Onuoha, poetry, a form of literature that uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language such as phonaesthetics, sound symbolism and metre, to evoke meanings, is an important tool for keeping social issues on the front burner of society. He studied History and International Relations at Abia State University, but has worked in advertising ever since. Excitement, as Lagos Fringe Festival holds(Opens in a new browser tab) Onuoha was at the six-day Lagos Fringe Festival 2019, an open access multidisciplinary arts festival for producers, culture advocates, exhibitors and performers to showcase their work. It held in partnership with Multichoice Nigeria, British Council Nigeria, Freedom Park and the Alliance Francaise, on the19th to 24th November, 2019, at various venues across the city of Lagos. His “Nwa Chukwu”, a spoken word performance which featured Maka and Tonie The Emperor, was a major stage event that held guests spellbound at the Lagos Fringe Festival 2019. The piece, “Nwa Chukwu”, is a stage adaptation of Onuoha’s Spoken Word album, also titled “Nwa Chukwu”. Poems for Nwa Chukwu according to him, which were written and performed by himself, featured Maka and Tonie The Emperor. The performance was directed by Ndukwe Onuoha and Tonie The Emperor, and produced by Tonie The Emperor. The People’s Hero Reality TV Show: Ebuka Eze emerges winner(Opens in a new browser tab) The artiste seems to be adopting a unique style of the poetry genre in terms of delivery while on stage, which holds his audience spellbound as they assimilate in awe, the messages imbedded in his presentation. On the uniqueness of his approach, Onuoha explained that “I fuse a unique conversational delivery with traditional instrumentation to deliver poetry that is accessible, relatable and at once punchy. Describing himself as an incurable advert man, and an award-winning copywriter and Creative Director of 7even Interactive, a fast-rising advertising agency in Lagos, Nigeria, Onuoha however isn’t letting his passion for spoken word performance wane because as he maintained, “ It is a very important tool for keeping social issues on the front burner of society, and should be kept alive by all means.” “Nwa Chukwu”, Spoken word performance, he disclosed, was inspired by the need to start a conversation about identity, adding that “More and more, we see many young Nigerians shirk their identity in favour of Western ideals. So, I wanted to start a conversation about identity and what it means to be Nigerian.” Lagos Fringe Festival comes with exciting shows(Opens in a new browser tab) According to him, the presentation at the Lagos Fringe Festival was the first of many performances. “This is my first theatre production, so I had to learn as we went along. Vanguard The 2019 edition of the Lagos Fringe International Festival scheduled to take place from 19th till 24th November, 2019 at various venues across the city of Lagos, will be exciting over two thousand visitors from across the globe with breathtaking shows. November 11, 2019 In "The Arts" THEY came, from all over the world. Over 80 world renowned writers, visual and performing artistes, researchers, scholars, academia, all assembled with much enthusiasm on the 17th of November 2015, for the 3rd edition of the Ake Arts and Book Festival, held at the June 12 Cultural Centre Kuto, Abeokuta,… December 3, 2015 In "News" Arrangements have been concluded for the take-off of the 2015 edition of Ake Arts and Book Festival, a yearly literary feast, billed to hold at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Kuto-Abeokuta, the Ogun State Capital. Expected at the festival which begins from Tuesday November 17th through Thursday 21st, are some… November 16, 2015 In "News"