Up and doing, beautiful Yoruba actress, Peju Johnson, is a very desirable woman most men would love to get on the ground floor with but she’s not just an item on the menu because she knows exactly how her meal is to be served when it comes to men. In a recent chat with Potpourri, Peju gives a picture of the type of man that can rock her world. “I love a calm gentleman with a nice and good smell. I also love men that dress well in a good manner of approach and respect for women. I can’t stand a disrespectful man with a loose mouth that has no regards for women. It’s a major turnoff for me,” she said. The actress, who is yet to produce her own film but has featured in so many others’ believes sex is something that should be practised among married couples only and not singles as it is widely seen. She said it is a sin for unmarried couples to engage in sexual intercourse. “There are many sinners out there though,” she chuckled Peju started acting back in her secondary school days but didn’t pick it up professionally until she found herself in Egypt where she joined TAMPAN. But her career took flight last year when she returned to Nigeria and has since featured in many films Some of the films she has featured include Widow, Lekki Guys, Vow, Farayola, Aremudada, Igbekele, Iya Karamo, Scar, Kogbagidi, Eto Mi, Ayetimowa, Single Mother, Abiyamo and many more. Vanguard Stunningly beautiful Yoruba actress, Peju Johnson, who recently relocated to Nigeria  from Egypt to take her acting to the next level, has expressed her disgust with what she hates about the Yoruba sector of the film industry. June 10, 2018 In "Entertainment" Captivating and beautiful Yoruba actress, Peju Johnson relocated from Egypt to Nigeria in 2016 to give her dream of acting wings to fly and since she hit the ground running in  2017, there has been no stopping her as the scripts have kept coming. October 5, 2018 In "Interview" Peju battled with infertility for over five years before taking the plunge with IVF in a London fertility treatment centre. At 34, she became pregnant with her first child; unfortunately she suffered a first trimester miscarriage. Almost a year later when she got pregnant again following another IVF cycle, she… February 2, 2019 In "Health"