The United States secretly expelled two Chinese embassy officials in September after they drove onto a sensitive military base in Virginia, The New York Times reported Sunday. The newspaper, which cited people with knowledge of the episode, said it appeared to be the first time in more than 30 years that the US has expelled Chinese diplomats on suspicion of espionage. At least one of the diplomats was believed to be an intelligence officer operating undercover, the Times said. The Times said the diplomats, accompanied by their wives, drove up to the checkpoint at the entrance to a sensitive installation near Norfolk, Virginia that includes special operations forces. The guard saw that they didn’t have permission to enter and directed them to go through the gates, turn around and exit. The Chinese officials continued onto the base, evading military personnel pursuing them until they were forced to stop by fire trucks blocking their path, according to the Times. It said the officials said they didn’t understand the guard’s instructions and got lost. Weeks after the incident, the State Department placed restrictions on the activities of Chinese diplomats, in what it said was a response to years-old Chinese regulations limiting the movements of US diplomats. Vanguard News Nigeria. United States (US) President, Donald Trump said on Twitter on Wednesday night that he would delay by two weeks the next increase in tariffs on Chinese goods as a “gesture of good will” to advance trade talks that have made little progress for months. The president acted several hours after… September 12, 2019 In "Foreign" The United States Secretary of State, Rex Tillerson, yesterday, told African countries to be wary of Chinese government and its loan facilities. March 9, 2018 In "News" The United States is the world’s biggest source of instability and its politicians are going around the world baselessly smearing China, the Chinese government’s top diplomat said on Saturday in a stinging attack at a G20 meeting in Japan. Relations between the world’s two largest economies have nose-dived amid a… November 23, 2019 In "Foreign"