A Female judge has been accused of using her courtroom to have group sex with lawyers. Judge Dawn Gentry, 38, from Kentucky, US, is also alleged to have pressurised lawyers into having threesomes with her and her ex-pastor lover. Those lawyers who refused her requests were then not given preferential treatment in their cases, it is alleged. Divorced Gentry denies the allegations against her. She is said to have used social media app Snapchat to flirt with lawyers, according to the Kentucky Judicial Conduct Commission. Among the charges, Gentry is also accused of having a threesome involving her secretary and with her lover Stephen Penrose, a former Christian pastor, as well as allowing employees to get drunk on the job. Gentry is also accused of using her position to secure Penrose a job in court as a case specialist. The judicial commission has also spoken to Katherine Schulz, who was on a panel with Gentry, to deal with cases of child abuse. Shulz claims that Gentry used Snapchat to ask her to seduce her former husband, Brian Gentry so that she could then accuse him of infidelity. Representatives of Gentry have denied she engaged in inappropriate or unwanted sexual advances toward Ms. Schulz as well as the other charges. (Metro UK) Vanguard Nigeria Nigeria Recall that last year, Apostle Johnson Suleman of the Omega Fire Ministries Worldwide was the subject of a sex scandal that went viral on social media. But in a shocking turnaround, last Saturday, his accuser, 23 yr-old Miss Stephanie Otobo appeared on the altar of Omega Fire Ministries in Auchi… February 4, 2018 In "Entertainment" LAGOS—Lanre Gentry, Nollywood actress, Mercy Aigbe’s husband, has been remanded in prison custody until he meets his bail conditions of N500,000 and two sureties, who reside in Lagos and have landed property. May 10, 2017 In "News" Bill Cosby’s lawyers will ask a Pennsylvania State judge on Tuesday to keep more than a dozen women who have accused the comedian of sexual assault off the witness stand. November 1, 2016 In "Entertainment"