A Civil Society Coalition for Peace and Justice (CSPJ) in conjunction with the Kalabari Heritage Forum has called on Gov. Nyeson Wike of Rivers to intervene in the delay in burying the late business mogul, Mr. Benson Lulu-Briggs. The group also called on the governor to look into the crisis that led to the delay. The Convener of CSCPJ, Mr. John Ogbu, who made the call on Tuesday while speaking with journalists in Abuja, urged all the warring parties to sheathe their swords and allow peace to reign in the Lulu-Briggs’s family. It would be recalled that Lulu-Briggs, who hailed from Abonnema, Rivers, died aboard a private aircraft at the Kotoka International Airport, Accra, Ghana on Dec. 28, 2018, but he has yet to be buried due to family disagreement on the circumstances that led to his demise. Ogbu said “We urge Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers who has visited the family house of the late Chief Lulu-Briggs recently to wade into the crisis with a view to ending it with peace. “The overwhelming population of Kalabari people and Nigerians at large who are beneficiaries of the fine legacies of Lulu-Briggs demand that the rife and bitterness in the family must end now.” He urged the elder son of the deceased, Mr. Dumo Lulu-Briggs to shelve his actions in delaying the burial of his father, which had kept so many persons of Kalabari extraction bitter and frustrated. “It is rather disheartening that Dumo being one of the three eldest sons who is supposed to lead the other family members by example is on the verge of making the labour of High Chief Lulu-Briggs slip into vanity,” he said, as reported by NAN. vanguard By Sotonye Douglas Re: https://www.pmnewsnigeria.com/2019/10/18/seinye-lulu-briggs-media-trial-facts-vs-fiction/ by Mr Oraye St.Franklyne One can only laugh at the level of amusement caused by the writer's imagination and belief that he can twist facts of a simple matter as to mystery surrounding the demise of High Chief Olu-Benson Lulu-Briggs who was reported dead in… October 19, 2019 In "Viewpoint" Family members of the founder of Moni Pulo Limited, late. High Chief O. B. Lulu-Briggs, have insisted that an inquest must be conducted on the remains of the late High, noting that the inquest is to determine the rightful person to take the mortal remains of the High Chief O.… October 21, 2019 In "News" History is what we record. Whatever the era, whether amid peace or conflict, there will always be someone with a camera or a pen; recording events. Our focus here is legendary nationalist and philanthropist, High Chief Olu Benson Lulu Briggs, who turns 88 on Tuesday, May 22, 2018. Every year,… May 20, 2018 In "News"