The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, expressed concern that the persisting volatility in the price of crude oil is putting pressure on the local content initiative of the Federal Government. Amendment of Deep Offshore Act long overdue – NNPC chief(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking in Bayelsa, at the ongoing 9th  Practical Nigerian Content conference, Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, stated that with this reality, it had become expedient, for the Federal Government and stakeholders to raise the bar on the Nigerian content policy. He said : “The Nigerian content policy has indeed been a catalyst for the nation’s industrialisation. There is, however, no doubt that the resilience of local content policy is being tested under the present volatility in oil prices experienced in the global oil and gas market. Now is therefore, the time to raise the bar of the Nigerian content policy.” Identifying the roles played by the NNPC in local content development, Kyari, who was represented by Chief Operating Officer, Corporate Services of the NNPC, Mr. Faruk Sa’id, explained that the NNPC had always been at the heart of the local content story in Nigeria in a bid to maximize participation of Nigerians in its projects and domicile project activities in-country. He added that in this regard, the NNPC had been implementing the Nigerian Content Policy as enshrined in the Nigerian Oil and Gas Industry Content Development (NOGICD). How to attract global institutional investors to Nigeria — Expert(Opens in a new browser tab) He said: “As early as 2005, despite almost 50 years of a vibrant national oil industry experience, NNPC was concerned at the low level of Nigerian Content in our country and thus called for a fresh approach to domesticating oil and gas industry spend through the establishment of the Nigerian Content Division (NCD) with the aim of identifying and guiding the implementation of key national content initiatives including promoting local manufacturing of steel plates and pipes and developing engineering design expertise in Nigerian engineers. Vanguard By Michael Eboh & Prince Okafor The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, expressed concern that the persistent volatility in the price of crude oil is putting immense pressure on the local content initiative of the Federal Government. Speaking in Bayelsa, at the ongoing 9th Practical Nigerian Content, Group Managing… December 3, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, has expressed concern that the persistent volatility in the price of crude oil is putting immense pressure on the local content initiative of the Federal Government. December 3, 2019 In "News" THE Chairman, Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria, Bank-Anthony Okoroafor, has said that Nigeria lost more than $400 billion to capital flight before the introduction of the nation's Local Content Act of 2010. January 1, 2018 In "Energy"