The Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Sunday said it arrested two suspects at a robbery scene in Pegi community in Kuje Area Council, Abuja. The Deputy Police Public Relations Officer of the Command, ASP Mariam Yusuf disclosed this in a statement in Abuja. She said two victims of the robbery incident died following deep machete wounds inflicted on them by the suspects. Yusuf said the information being circulated in the social media that four persons were killed by bandits/Kidnappers in Pegi area was not true. According to her, the suspects were arrested at the scene of the robbery by police operatives attached to Pegi Division. She said the arrest followed the police swift response to a distress call from Gbogu Village along Kabi Mangoro road in Pegi area, Abuja on Sunday. “Police operatives attached to Pegi Division were instantly deployed to the scene where they apprehended the two suspects and disarmed them,” she said. She said that efforts were being made to arrest one of the suspects, currently at large. Yusuf said that the Commissioner of Police in Charge of FCT, Mr Bala Ciroma had ordered a discreet investigation into the incident. She said the command commiserate with the families of the deceased and called on residents to remain calm. Yusuf pledged the commitment of the command to protect lives and property in the FCT. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja The FCT Command disclosed at the weekend that it has created five additional Police Divisions to tackle the increasing crime wave in the federal capital. The Command said the new divisions were approved by the Inspector General, IGP Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, in line with his… October 26, 2019 In "News" The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja police said on Saturday that it has killed one person and arrested four suspects in a foiled bank robbery in Mpape area of the territory. A statement by ASP Mariam Yusuf, the Deputy Police Public Relations Officer of the command, said the suspects were… December 28, 2019 In "Metro" The Police Command in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on Wednesday said it arrested 42 suspects over rape, kidnapping and other criminal activities in the territory. The Commissioner of Police in charge of the Command, Mr Bala Ciroma, disclosed this at a news conference in Abuja. He said that 26… November 8, 2019 In "Metro"