Paul Ibe, the Spokesperson to the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the 2019 presidential election, Atiku Abubakar, has said that President Buhari’s name did not make Google’s recently released list of most searched Persons in Nigeria. DSS, Buhari and the Gestapo state(Opens in a new browser tab) Disclosing this in a statement obtained by Vanguard, Paul Ibe said, it is the usual occurrence that the president of a country under review usually makes the list. He said for President Buhari not to have made the Google list has justified the PDP’s position that President Buhari could not have won the 2019 election because, according to him, the president is not popular. However, among the list shown by the spokesperson, Atiku’s name appeared second among the top ten names. According to him, “Google has just released the list of the most searched persons in Nigeria for the year 2019 and Atiku Abubakar is the second most searched person after Naira Marley. Incidentally, General Buhari is not amongst the top 10 most searched Nigerians. PDP maligning Supreme Court panel on presidential election petition – APC(Opens in a new browser tab) “This result reflects our position on the 2019 Presidential election. General Buhari could not have won that election because he is not popular with Nigerians and this is tangible evidence. It is an established pattern that the president, leader of a country is usually the most searched political personality. Nigeria bucks the trend. Why? That is poser for the media. “Please see below for the top 10 most searched names in Google from Nigeria:  THE campaign teams of President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress, APC, and Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, were at each other’s throats, yesterday, over allegations of corruption and need to clear their names. December 31, 2018 In "Headlines" Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has said President Muhammadu Buhari knows a thing or two about bringing looted funds into the country. December 30, 2018 In "News" Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says he was not “formally invited” to the national peace accord for the 2019 elections. December 11, 2018 In "News"