The Edo State Commissioner for Arts, Culture, Tourism, and Diaspora, Hon. Osemwengie Ero, has said reforms by the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration in creating an enabling environment for businesses to thrive has attracted more investments to the state. Ero stated this at the opening of a new hospitality business (A.B.K Hotel and Suites) located along Sapele road axis of Benin City, the state capital. The Commissioner said the emergence of more hospitality businesses in Edo was evidence of the increasing commercial activities in the state. “Governor Obaseki is an investor and he is creating enabling an environment for investment in the state to thrive. We are here to commission this new hotel; It will create jobs and once our youths are employed, we would be able to curb social vices in the state. “This gesture is in line with the governor’s vision to create 200,000 jobs in the state,” the Commissioner said. Meanwhile, the Chief Executive Officer of A.B.K Hotel, Mr. Iyore Osayande said the idea of the hotel was to create employment and boost hospitality business in the state. He, however, commended the governor for his transformational reforms that have ensured more businesses set up in the state. vanguard …more flight options for guests, tourists With barely two weeks to the National Festival for Arts and Culture (NAFEST) holding in the state, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki has commissioned De Bliss Gold Hotel and Suites, swelling the ranks of hospitality options for guests and tourists coming into the… October 12, 2019 In "News" With all set for the 2019 National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST) holding in Benin City, the Edo State Capital, the state government has urged residents to come out en masse to contribute to the successful hosting of the event. Speaking during a roadshow to sensitise residents on the… October 18, 2019 In "News" In  a bid to increase inbound tourism, Edo State government has encouraged film makers in diaspora  and other entertainers from the state to return home and take advantage of the rich cultural heritage of the people and enabling environment provided by the  Obaseki administration to shoot their films. November 11, 2018 In "News"