Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey, a juju music legend, was on Sunday inducted into the Evergreen music hall of fame, at the Ariya Eko Music Festival by the Evergreen musical company. Cardi B wears Nigerian inspired outfit at Livespot X Festival (photos)(Opens in a new browser tab) Obey who had a statue sculptured after him by the organizers, was among a list of popular musicians who performed that night. Speaking after being inducted, Ebenezer Obey said humility and hard work got him to where he is. He advised artists to be disciplined, humble and dedicated while doing music as a career. The Ariya Eko festival, which had a lot of Yoruba musicians and government officials in attendance,  is an annual festival organized by the Evergreen musical company with the support of the Lagos state government. Have the milk of human kindness(Opens in a new browser tab) The Ariya Eko lived up to its promise of organizing a wonderful festival, as, Obesere, Ara, Chief commander Ebenezer Obey  and all the other artists, added spice to the show with their superlative performances, keeping the crowd on their feet, when they performed. Vanguard Legendary Juju musician and evangelist, Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey, has admonished musicians not to see themselves as competitors, but rather as one united people, using their talents to make people happy. Obey, who made this remark during a press conference organized by Evergreen Musical Company, to create awareness for their… December 7, 2019 In "Entertainment" The maiden edition of the Ariya Eko Music Festival will hold in Lagos by the middle of December. The festival will showcase Nigeria’s indigenous music and its tourism potentials. Nigeria’s number one collector and promoter of indigenous and highlife music, Evergreen Musical Company has put together the show to bring… November 16, 2019 In "News" Evangelist (Prof.) Ebenezer Oluwaremilekun Olasupo Aremu Obey-Fabiyi (MFR), Nigeria’s veteran musician cum gospel crusader last Wednesday opened a gallery museum-space at the Federal College of Education, Osiele, Abeokuta, Ogun State. October 7, 2019 In "The Arts"