The Pan African Movement for Peace, Human Rights and Social Justice (PAMPHRSJ) has risen in defence of Mr. Allen Onyema the Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, who was recently indicted of bank fraud and money laundering by the United States Department of Justice (USDoJ). Convener of the movement, Rex Ekiugbo Anighoro said at a press conference in Warri, Delta State: “We condemn the ongoing media trial, hasty and premeditated guilty verdict in the court of public opinion on Barrister Onyema even before he makes appearance in the United States to defend himself.” Anighoro, who is also the spokesman to Alhaji Mujahid Dokubo Asari, stated that Lauretta Onochie series of tweets where she accused Barrister Allen Onyema of been part of the plunderers of the Niger Delta was in bad taste. Anighoro, who recently led a protest walk in New York during the 74th United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), said the conspiracy against the Air Peace boss would fail and attempts by imposters and outlawed organizations like the Movement for the Emancipation of Niger Delta (MEND) to score cheap points are dead on arrival.” Anighoro, who addressed newsmen in company with Ambassador Obinna Sixtus, President of the Independent Pan African Youth Parliament (IPAYP) stated that the two groups are already mobilizing millions of youths to march in solidarity with Onyema, whom they consider as Africa’s global citizen and a great entrepreneurial brand. VANGUARD Angry reactions have started trailing the stance of the Federal Government and its agencies, on the reported indictment and issuance of a warrant for the arrest of Air Peace boss, Chief Allen Onyema, by the United States Department of Justice. November 25, 2019 In "News" By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja The Coalition of Civil Society for Good Governance, CCSGG, Thursday, asserted that the United States of America, USA, an indictment on Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Air Peace, Allen Onyema, is a mere conspiracy by business rivals and foreign collaborators. The CCSGG made the… November 28, 2019 In "News" Allen Ifechukwu Athan Onyema, the Chairman, CEO, and founder of Air Peace, a Nigerian airline, has been charged with bank fraud and money laundering for moving more than $20 million from Nigeria through United States bank accounts in a scheme involving false documents based on the purchase of airplanes. The… November 23, 2019 In "News"