Africa Magic, the leading provider of entertainment for Africa by Africans and organisers of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards, has announced the return of Femi Odugbemi to the position of Head Judge for the 7th edition of the awards. This will be Odugbemi’s fourth outing as Head Judge of the AMVCAs, Africa’s biggest celebration of film and TV talent. Agwa xmas carnival of peace, beauty pageant for Dec. An internationally respected writer, filmmaker and academic, Femi Odugbemi boasts 30 years’ experience in the film and TV industry and continues to serve in various bodies as: a voting Member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS); Member of the Governing Board of CORA (Committee for Relevant Art); a Fellow of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP); a Member of the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria and as Provost of the Orange Academy. Osinbajo to open National Advertising Conference Femi Odugbemi has on three previous occasions served as Head Judge of the AMVCA (2012-2014). He also is a three-time Head Judge of the Uganda Film Festival (2014-2016), was a Juror for the 2016 British Council “Shakespeare Lives” project, the Emmy Awards in New York and the Academy Awards in 2018. Femi Odugbemi was also one of the jurors of the 2019 Johannesburg Film Festival in South Africa. Vanguard The MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) initiative has been described as an indication of the company’s commitment to growing and developing African creative industries. September 9, 2018 In "Showtime People" At the recently held Zuma Film Festival in Abuja, the Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) under the auspices of the Nigeria Film Society, honoured renowned filmmaker Femi Odugbemi with the Movie Rock of Fame Award. December 14, 2018 In "Entertainment" Leading Kenyan film maker and script writer, Njoki Muhoho, who was named the head judge for the 2016 edition of the prestigious Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards, AMVCAs, by the organizers has described the well-deserving appointment as “a gratification and a boost to the East African film industry.” October 24, 2015 In "Home Video People"