Hundreds of people blocked one of Madrid’s most emblematic streets on Saturday by dancing to demand action against climate change in what protesters dubbed civil disco-bedience. The protest, called by grassroots green movement Extinction Rebellion, blocked the central shopping street Gran Via. Activists waved flags and danced to songs including the Bee Gees 1977 classic Stayin’ Alive. “We’ve tried all the normal safe ways – petitions, marches, writing letters to the politicians, so now all we can do is civil disobedience,” Joan, an Australian who has been living in Madrid for 18 months, told Reuters. “We’re here on Gran Via in Madrid doing civil disco-bedience,” she added as protesters danced around her. Despite the cool winter temperatures, some of the demonstrators danced topless along the street. The protest coincides with Madrid hosting the annual U.N. climate summit, which opened last Monday with a call from U.N. chief Antonio Guterres not to be the “generation … that fiddled while the planet burned”. By the meeting’s close on Dec. 13, negotiators hope to resolve remaining disagreements on how to implement an accord struck in Paris in 2015 to avert catastrophic global warming. [Reuters] Vanguard News Nigeria. Almost 400 scientists have endorsed a civil disobedience campaign aimed at forcing governments to take rapid action to tackle climate change, warning that failure could inflict “incalculable human suffering.” In a joint declaration, climate scientists, physicists, biologists, engineers and others from at least 20 countries broke with the caution traditionally… October 14, 2019 In "Foreign" Shouting "occupation forces out" and "the streets will always be ours," hundreds of thousands turned out in Barcelona Tuesday to protest police violence during a banned weekend independence referendum in Catalonia. October 3, 2017 In "News" French riot police used teargas and  stun grenades and water cannon on Saturday against protesters clad in fluorescent yellow trying to break through security cordons at the Champs Elysees in Paris. December 1, 2018 In "News"