The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, says deductions are being made from states for the Budget Support Facilities given by the Federal Government. Zainab disclosed this while  briefing State House correspondents after the National Economic Council (NEC) meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Thursday at the Presidential Villa. She said the repayments were being made to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). “We have an update to the council on the repayment process for the Budget Support Facilities that was granted to the states. “The current situation is that deductions are ongoing and remittances on these facilities are being made to the CBN.’’ Ahmed said that the ministry also reported to the council on the balances of some key accounts. “For the Excess Crude Account, as at Nov. 19, we have a balance of 324. 98 million dollars. “In the Stabilisation Account, as at Dec. 17, we have a balance of N30. 5 billion; in the Natural Resource Fund, still at the same date, Dec. 17, we have the balance of N88. 3 billion, ‘’ she said. The finance minister  had recently said that the Federal government had resolved to recover N614 billion loan facility from 35 states of the federation. She had said that NEC agreed to constitute a team to finalise modalities for commencement of repayment of the loan facility. Vanguard News Nigeria State governors are not satisfied with the revised N162 million monthly repayment for the Federal Government’s budget support facility, the Minister of Finance, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, has disclosed. October 29, 2019 In "Finance" THE thirty- six State Governors under the aegis of  Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) are at the moment engaged in a marathon meeting ahead of Thursday's  97th National Economic Council, NEC meeting. September 18, 2019 In "News" By Henry Umoru, Abuja  The 36 State Governors under the aegis of Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) yesterday agreed to pay the N614 billion that was advanced to thirty five states as budget support facility. Responding to a question  after the meeting of the governors  ahead of Thursday's  97th National Economic Council,… September 18, 2019 In "News"