Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says Manchester United “can’t play tippy-tappy football” like neighbours Manchester City. The Red Devils bounced back from defeat to Watford away from home by putting Newcastle United to the sword on Boxing Day in a 4-1 victory. Not only will the players be prepared this weekend against Burnley but aware of the expectations. “The boys know what I expect on Saturday,” Solskjaer said when last Sunday’s chastening 2-0 loss at Watford was broached. That was one of several times that United have stumbled against one of the Premier League’s lesser lights – an undoubted problem for this side in transition. “I think it’s been said in no uncertain terms what type of team we are,” Solskjaer told reporters. “Supporters know what we expect and know when we are at our best. “We showed that on Thursday and, even though we went a goal down, heads didn’t drop. We have to make it hard to play against us. “We can’t play tippy-tappy football and can’t, at this moment in time, play like City – only City can do that. “We have to show more energy, drive, and urgency, plus selflessness in every single game. That’s the way we have to play at the moment.” Source: Football 365 Vanguard News Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says Manchester United can still qualify for the Champions League despite a collapse in form extended by their derby defeat against Manchester City. April 25, 2019 In "News" Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has no issues with Paul Pogba and his desire to regain fitness despite the France World Cup winner's continued absence due to injury. Pogba has not played for United since 30 September due to a persistent ankle injury, missing 21 games for club and… December 22, 2019 In "Sports" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer accepts Manchester United are a “little bit further behind” in their development than he had hoped. This will be an uncomfortable Christmas of introspection at Old Trafford after David De Gea and Aaron Wan-Bissaka errors gifted rock-bottom, Watford, a surprise 2-0 victory on Sunday. United lacked intensity,… December 25, 2019 In "Sports"