The Department of State Services (DSS) raised alarm saying it has uncovered syndicated plots by some undesirable groups to cause a breakdown of law and order in various parts of the country including Abuja. The arrangement, according to a statement signed by the DSS Spokesman, Peter Afunanya and made available to Vanguard on Tuesday, is to instigate protests, mass action and violence with a view to causing anarchy and destabilizing the country. “These predetermined actions have been designed to take place simultaneously in the major cities across the geopolitical zones in the coming weeks. This is more so that the plotters are also targeting the yuletide seasons to accomplish their sinister motives,” the statement said. The statement added: “Considering the implications of these on public safety and national security, the Service wishes to warn the anti-democratic elements responsible for these heinous plots to desist forthwith from their inglorious acts. “Consequently, parents are advised to rein in their wards and enjoin them not to allow themselves to be used to foment trouble. “Similarly, Heads of academic and public institutions are to warn their students and employees respectively from engaging in any untoward activity against public order. “The Service and other sister agencies are at alert and will ensure that peace and security are maintained in all parts of the country before, during and after the festive periods. “Law-abiding citizens are equally encouraged to go about their normal businesses without fear but report any suspected persons or breach of peace to the nearest security office to them,” DSS said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Department of State Services has raised the alarm that there are plots by those it calls ‘subversive groups and individuals’ to destabilize Nigeria and undermine national peace, security and unity. September 9, 2019 In "News" The  Presidency has ordered proper investigation into how the huge cash said to have been released to security agencies in the country for the 2015 Presidential election was managed. August 10, 2018 In "Headlines" The Department of State Services, DSS, has accused the governor of Rivers State, Mr Nyesom Wike, of recruiting youths in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, to create mayhem in the city that would lead to a break down of law and order. December 23, 2016 In "News"