Stakeholders have tasked Eko Carbon Exchange to work towards realising the net-zero emissions 2030 target. Yuletide: NSE market capitalisation shed N143bn The technical panel for Eko Carbon Exchange stated this during the global stage conference center, in Mandrd , Spain on the  sidelines of the United Nations Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP25). They asked all relevant organisations and companies to partner by listing their projects, initiatives and offset their travels on the Exchange. Speaking during the launch of carbon emission conference    ,Managing Director of    Eko Carbon Exchange, Mr. Innocent Azih, noted that it is the first of such platform in West Africa, adding that, Exchange is mobilizing to harness the opportunities in low-Carbon development across all economic sectors in the states of Nigeria, starting with the solid waste and transport sectors. He said it will also serve as regional vehicle for mobilising finance for low-Carbon economic development for West African economies through the Clean Development Mechanism. Global carbon dioxide levels hit a new record in 2017, U.N. says “The objective is to mobilise the necessary resource pool and low-Carbon finance required for  greening all economic sectors.” he said. Vanguard Nigeria needs 142 million US dollars between now and 2030 to finance its Intended Nationally Determined Commitment (INDC) toward reducing emission and low carbon for improved environment. September 10, 2016 In "News" European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen wants to put up 100 billion euros ($130 billion) to help EU nations that still heavily rely on fossil fuels to transition to lower emissions. Von der Leyen, who took office this month at the helm of the European Union’s powerful executive arm,… December 11, 2019 In "Foreign" FROM the phone or laptop you are reading this on, to the car you drive, the clothes you wear or the food you eat, most of the goods you use have travelled across the seas. August 14, 2019 In "Maritime Report"