Brazilian leader Jair Bolsonaro said Wednesday he had been examined for skin cancer, in the latest health scare for the 64-year-old. The president was seriously injured in a knife attack while campaigning for election last year. His health has been a subject of concern ever since and he has undergone several surgeries to treat the wounds he suffered in the stabbing — most recently in September. Wearing a bandage over his left ear, Bolsonaro told reporters outside his residence that he had visited a dermatologist at an air force hospital in the capital Brasilia. “I have fair skin, I fish a lot, I do a lot of activities. So the possibility of skin cancer exists,” he said. READ ALSO: Morales arrives in Argentina to seek asylum “I don’t know if they’re going to do a biopsy,” the president said, according to local media. “They treated me, they poked at me, they gave me anesthesia. I fell asleep. I was so tired I lay down on the couch and fell asleep.” “For now, (Hamilton) Mourao is still the vice president, you can be sure,” Bolsonaro joked. The president had been scheduled to fly to the northeastern state of Bahia late Wednesday to mark the start of an airport renovation, but the visit was cancelled the day before. A presidential spokesman said earlier that Bolsonaro was undergoing routine exams and was in a “good state of health.” VANGUARD Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro claimed on Friday that Hollywood star Leonardo DiCaprio financed fires being set in the Amazon rainforest, without presenting any evidence, the right-wing leader’s latest broadside in casting blame over forest fires that have generated international concern. Bolsonaro appeared to be commenting on social media postings claiming… November 30, 2019 In "News" The head of Brazil's powerful state development bank quit on Sunday, a day after far-right President Jair Bolsonaro threatened to sack him, fueling a political crisis engulfing the government. June 17, 2019 In "News" Brazil's President Jair Bolsonaro has insisted that the Brazilian areas of the Amazon rainforest are sovereign territory. Conservationists blame Mr Bolsonaro and his government for turning a blind eye to farmers and loggers clearing land in the Amazon, hastening deforestation, according to BBC report. But in an address at the… September 25, 2019 In "Foreign"