US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo voiced hope Tuesday that North Korea would not carry out a nuclear or long-range missile test while Pyongyang demands US concessions by year-end. Pompeo said that the United States was working to “try to develop places where we can communicate” with North Korea but stopped short of saying whether Washington would offer new proposals. He said that President Donald Trump has been “unambiguous about our expectation” after three meetings with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. “Chairman Kim personally made the commitment to denuclearize, so there wouldn’t be long-range missile tests, nuclear tests,” Pompeo said. “All of those are commitments that we are very hopeful that the North Koreans will continue to abide by,” he told a joint news conference with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov. Trump has hailed his relationship with Kim after his breakthrough meetings, but North Korea is impatient to see benefits such as sanctions relief from its freeze on tests. North Korea has warned of an unspecified major action if the United States does not come forward by the end of the year. Amid growing concern over short-range North Korean rockets, the United States called a meeting for Wednesday at the UN Security Council. Lavrov, whose country has longstanding ties with North Korea, asked for a return to dialogue between Washington and Pyongyang and a lifting of sanctions. “We are prepared to actively aid on this track in order to overcome the current situation,” Lavrov said. “We call upon the North Korean leadership to show restraint, of course,” he said. VANGUARD Praising his "good relationship" with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, US President Donald Trump on Tuesday welcomed reports that Pyongyang has started dismantling a facility seen as a testing ground for intercontinental ballistic missiles. July 24, 2018 In "News" North Korea fired two short-range ballistic missiles early on Wednesday, the South Korean military said, only days after it launched two similar missiles intended to pressure South Korea and the United States to stop upcoming military drills. July 31, 2019 In "Foreign" North Korea released three American prisoners and handed them over to U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Wednesday, clearing a major obstacle to an unprecedented summit between President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. May 9, 2018 In "News"