The European Union may need to extend the deadline for talks about a new trade relationship with Britain, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told French daily Les Echos in an interview published on Friday. Von der Leyen said both sides needed to seriously think about whether there is enough time to negotiate a new trade deal and work out agreements about a series of other issues. “It would be reasonable to evaluate the situation mid-year and then, if necessary, agree on extending the transition period,” she told the paper. Britain has set a hard deadline of December 2020 for reaching a new trade deal with the EU, betting that the prospect of another Brexit cliff-edge would force Brussels to move quickly to seal an accord. In separate comments to German magazine Der Spiegel, von der Leyen said of Britain’s departure deadline, currently set as Dec. 31, 2020: “That worries me a lot, because time is extremely short for the mass of issues that have to be negotiated.” She said earlier this month that this timeframe is “extremely short” to discuss not only trade issues but also education, transport, fisheries and other issues. Von der Leyen told Der Spiegel that on security and defence: “Both sides are now striving for close cooperation.” Vanguard News Nigeria European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen wants to put up 100 billion euros ($130 billion) to help EU nations that still heavily rely on fossil fuels to transition to lower emissions. Von der Leyen, who took office this month at the helm of the European Union’s powerful executive arm,… December 11, 2019 In "Foreign" Defence Secretary Michael Fallon has said that Britain will oppose anything resembling an EU army, amid a push in the EU for more military cooperation following British voters’ shock decision to leave the bloc. September 27, 2016 In "News" New British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was congratulated on Wednesday by friend and foe alike, led by Russian President Vladimir Putin who said he hoped for an improvement in current icy ties with London. July 24, 2019 In "Foreign"