Author and Lawyer, Reno Omokri has called for a boycott of on-demand movie platform, Netflix, if it goes ahead to show a movie that portrays Jesus as gay. The movie titled, The First Temptation of Christ was made by a YouTube comedy group and was released by Netflix in Brazil on December 3rd. The movie implied that Jesus was in a sexual relationship with his male friend Orlando. Taking to Instagram to share his thought, he urged Netflix not to take advantage of Christian’s tolerance. Read his full statement below “The other day, a misguided woman used Scripture as an ashtray. Now, Netflix announces a film about a gay Jesus. Would they do that to the Quran? “Netflix and other liberal media must NOT take advantage of Christian’s tolerance. Christians choose non-violence on purpose. It is not that we cannot be violent! Rather, it is that we choose not to be violent. “If Netflix goes ahead to release their comedy on the gay Jesus, I urge all Christians around the world to delete their Netflix app and cancel their Netflix subscription. If you fail to do this, you cannot claim to love Christ, His Father, or me, Their servant. “I remind all Christians of the injunction a Christ gave us in Matthew 10:33: “Whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven.”-Matthew 10:33 “Stand up for your faith or watch it forever ridiculed.” VANGUARD "The First Temptation of Christ" by Brazilian comedy group Porta dos Fundos began streaming on December 3, drawing criticism from conservative politicians, Evangelicals and Catholics. The Christmas satire on Netflix depicting Jesus in a gay relationship has sparked a backlash in Brazil, where hundreds of thousands signed a petition calling… December 15, 2019 In "Entertainment" Former Special Assistant to Ex-President Goodluck Jonathan on Eklectronic Media, Reno Omokri has said that the data tariff hike earlier proposed by the Nigerian Communication Commission, NCC in collaboration with telecommunication companies operating in Nigeria which met a public outcry and which was subsequently suspended was a Federal Government plan… December 10, 2016 In "News" Reno Omokri continued by saying that the Former Rivers state Governor and current Minister of Transport has no job and life outside the government, "which is why during the 2015 campaigns he was reduced to a driver to President Muhammadu Buhari and Malam Nasir Elrufai. How the people of Rivers… March 1, 2017 In "News"