A member of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Onyiwara Faith, who was abducted four days ago while on her way to attend the Community Development Service (CDS) meeting at Ilamija, Epe area of Lagos has been rescued. Faith, was rescued at about 2.20 am today in a forest around Ilamija Nla in Epe, after a gun battle between teams of policemen led by the Commissioner of Police, CP Hakeem Odumosu and the kidnappers. At the end of the crossfire, a suspected leader of the kidnap gang, Moses Ofeye, who sustained bullets wounds, was arrested.
Vanguard gathered that the victim was rushed to the hospital for treatment, due to the shock and trauma experienced during the long-distance trek. Spokesman for the Lagos State Police Command, DSP Elkana Bala who confirmed the report, said the victim had been discharged from the hospital after she was certified stable by doctors. He added that; “She has just been handed over to the Lagos State Coordinator of the NYSC and her family by the Commissioner of Police”. Bala disclosed that her abductors demanded N50 million and reduced the requested amount to N400,000 after much persuasion, with a directive to the farm manager to drop the money at Ijebu Ososa area. “But no ransom was paid,” he stated. Vanguard News Nigeria. In yesterday's issue, the report focused on how government and security agencies had risen to the challenges of insecurity in the state. Today, it presents accounts of the bizarre killings in Ikorodu by the Badoo cult group. July 22, 2017 In "Crime Guard" BARELY on week after Edo state police command set up an anti-kidnapping unit, the command yesterday paraded two gang of suspected kidnappers and two armed robbers alleged to have murdered a commercial motor-cyclists in June this year. October 12, 2009 In "News" An ailing 76-year-old Benjamin Okoye, who was abducted last Friday in Abia State, was, yesterday, rescued from his captors’ hideout at Okpukwu Umuobo Area of Aba town by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team, IRT. December 19, 2017 In "News"