Niger Insurance Plc  said that it paid  N1.4 billion claims in nine months from April to December 2019. Managing Director of the company, Mr. Edwin Igbiti, disclosed this at a press conference in Lagos, adding that other outstanding claims will be paid soonest. NSE lifts suspension on shares of Universal Insurance(Opens in a new browser tab) He said: ”The situation regarding unpaid claims and outstanding customer benefits can be attributed to the delay to the company’s large asset portfolio which is skewed towards fixed assets. However, the company’s assets are more than sufficient to settle all its liabilities and we have made significant progress towards liquidating some fixed assets to unlock cash and pay down all outstanding obligations soon.” ”Presently, Niger Insurance Plc has paid over N1.4 billion to its customers from April till date,” he added. According to him, Claims settlement remains the reason for the existence of any insurance company while reaffirming the company’s renewed sense of responsibility and commitment to excellence. He thanked all of the company’s customers for their patience, trust and understanding during the challenging period in its long and otherwise stellar history. Explaining the company’s growth and transformation plan, Igbiti said, the plan is designed to reposition the firm for service excellence and competitiveness in a rapidly changing operating landscape. According to him,  the transformation blueprint, will span over the next five years (2020 to 2024), and will  focus on operational and technological advancements in delivering bespoke insurance solutions to businesses, institutions and the growing populace of Nigeria. He noted that the implementation of the transformation plan already began in the fourth quarter of 2019 following his appointment. He said: ”Three pillars of the transformation plan are: Strengthening its balance sheet (financial strength); strengthening its people (talent & innovation) and strengthening its business model (sustained growth & profitability). ”To ensure a successful execution of this plan, our company recently constituted a new board-of-directors, a new management team and an array of strategic partnerships.” FRAUD: EFCC secures conviction of 84, recovers N217m in Edo, Ondo in 2019(Opens in a new browser tab) Also speaking, the company’s new Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Ademola Salami,  while providing a progress update said: “We are working with our financial advisers, the Board and Management of the company are already engaging with foreign and local investors that have shown interest in the company. High-level negotiations are on-going and we expect to secure substantive offers for investment in the coming weeks.” Vanguard The management of SA Insurance Plc, one of the non-life insurance groups in the country said that inspite of the harsh economic conditions that prevailed in the country; it paid claims to the tune of N525.9 million in the last financial year ended December 31, 2010. April 19, 2011 In "News" In spite of the economic meltdown, Niger Insurance Plc achieved a gross premium income of N7.2 billion in 2009 compared to N5.2 billion it realised in 2008. The company’s net premium income was N6.4 billion in 2009 as against N4.7 billion recorded in 2008. November 2, 2010 In "Business" In spite of the economic meltdown, Niger Insurance Plc achieved a gross premium income of N7.2 billion in 2009 compared to N5.2 billion it realised in 2008. The company’s net premium income was N6.4 billion in 2009 as against N4.7 billion recorded in 2008. November 9, 2010 In "Business"