A man who dressed as Santa Claus decided to rob a bank and threw the stolen cash in the air while shouting ‘Merry Christmas’ at passersby, according to police. David Wayne Oliver, 65, was arrested at a Starbucks coffee shop after he held up the Academy Bank in Colorado Springs on Monday afternoon, according to a police report. He is currently being held on a $10,000 bond. Police said the suspect had ‘threatened the use of a weapon’ and left the bank with an undisclosed amount of cash. Colorado Springs television station KKTV reported that eyewitness Dion Pascale recounted Oliver stepped outside the bank and tossed the money ‘all over the place’. ‘He started throwing money out of the bag’ before yelling, ‘Merry Christmas’, the TV station quoted Pascale as saying. Pascale said bystanders retrieved some of the money and gave it back to the bank as Oliver walked to the Starbucks, sat down and appeared to be waiting for police to arrest him, KKTV reported. The Denver Post said police believe ‘thousands of dollars’ remained unaccounted for, adding there was no indication Oliver used a weapon in the heist. Oliver, pictured in police mug shots with gray-and-white hair and a full white beard, is being held at the El Paso County jail and is set to make his first court appearance on Thursday, jail records showed. (Metro UK) Vanguard News Nigeria A man with a white beard was being held on $10,000 bond for allegedly robbing a Colorado bank and throwing the stolen cash into the air while shouting, “Merry Christmas” to passersby, police and local media reported on Tuesday. David Wayne Oliver, 65, was arrested at a nearby Starbucks coffee… December 25, 2019 In "News" Federal agents who searched Rapper Lil Wayne‘s private plane found a gold-plated pistol with a pearl grip and a number of drugs inside a Coach bag at a Miami airport on Monday, a report said. The “Lollipop” rapper, real name Dwayne M. Carter Jr., was not charged after the search… December 25, 2019 In "Entertainment" Disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein, who is due to go on trial on predatory sexual assault charges in Manhattan next month, is now facing more heat from prosecutors in California. The Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office says it is reviewing eight cases of sexual misconduct against the 67-year-old producer, according… December 25, 2019 In "News"