The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has been granted an order to forfeit 60 buildings linked to a deputy commandant of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). The order was granted by Federal High Court 6, sitting in Abuja presided over by Justice Okon Abang J. According to ICPC news release, the erstwhile staff of the NSCDC, Ms Adenike Ishola Bintu and her company, Faith Winners Properties Nigeria Ltd were charged for using her company to hoodwink unsuspecting members of the public into subscribing for allocation in a proposed housing estate while passing off the said estate project as a collaboration with her employer. The Commission said, “In the course of the trial, Bintu jumped bail, and available information indicates that she is out of the country.” “In its sustained determination to recover assets acquired with the proceeds of crime by corrupt persons, the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) has secured an Interim Forfeiture Order on two assets located at Sabon Lugbe, Abuja. “Following a motion ex parte filed by counsel to ICPC, John Paul Okwor, Justice Okon Abang J. of Federal High Court 6, sitting in Abuja granted the order against the assets linked to an erstwhile staff of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Ms Adenike Ishola Bintu and her company, Faith Winners Properties Nigeria Ltd. “The properties include an estate of 60 buildings at Plot No. MF1296 (10.9ha), Sabon Lugbe South West Extension (Goza Airport Road), Abuja, and a property at Plot No. ED1295 (9.6ha) located at Sabon Lugbe South West Extension (Goza Airport Road), Abuja. “Ms Bintu, a Deputy Commandant, and her company are standing trial before the Federal Capital Territory High Court in CHARGE NO: FCT/HC/CR/101/2013 for using her company to hoodwink unsuspecting members of the public into subscribing for allocation in a proposed housing estate while passing off the said estate project as a collaboration with her employer. “In the course of the trial, Bintu jumped bail, and available information indicates that she is out of the country.” ICPC is a commission set up by the Nigerian Federal Government to prohibit and prescribe punishment for corrupt practices and other related offences. Vanguard News Nigeria. The ICPC on Tuesday arraigned Margret Onoja , a Deputy Superintendent with the Nigeria Security And Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), before an FCT High Court for alleged fraud. June 24, 2014 In "News" A Federal High Court in Abuja has affirmed the powers of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to declare one Mr Mbuotidem Edike wanted. Mr Folu Olamiti, the spokesman of the ICPC, said this in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday. April 21, 2015 In "News" It was a shocking revelation, yesterday, at the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee probing alleged illegal land allocations and racketeering in the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, Abuja as the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission, ICPC, Mr Ekpo Nta testified that his agency had seized… November 8, 2013 In "News"