The All Progressives Congress (APC) has rejected results of Saturday local government elections in Adamawa describing it as “complete sham”. Speaking to newsmen on behalf of the party on Sunday in Yola, the party’s legal adviser, Mr Shagnah Pwamaddi, said that the party would do everything within the law to seek redress. “The recently conducted election is a complete sham, undemocratic and below standard of what we call election. “This is a selection that was perpetrated under intimidation and inducement. We are not going to accept it,” Pwamaddi said. In his reaction on the election, an APC chieftain and former Secretary to the Government of Federation, Mr Babachir Lawan, in a statement said no election was conducted in his local government (Hong). “In spite of assurance by the Adamawa state governor that there will be an open, free and fair LGA elections, there was no election in Hong LGA even in a single polling unit. “No election materials and no election officials were sighted any where in the LGA up to 4 pm on Saturday when I returned to Yola. “It’s such a shameful treatment of our people of which we have taken note. “We had expected this state government to conduct a credible election because it will not have come to power if the federal government had not allowed INEC to conduct a free and fair election,” Babacir said. Also speaking on the election the protem National Vice Chairman APC North East, Alhaji Umar Duhu, described the election as a charade which would not be allowed to stand. On his part, the State Chairman of PDP, Mr Tahir Shehu, said the party was satisfied with the election. “So far so good. I was in Toungo local government area where the election was smooth. “I was also in Jada and Mayo-Belwa Local Government areas where I saw massive turn-out in some places,” Shehu said. Also speaking on the election, the Chairman of Adamawa State Independent Electoral Commission (ADSIEC), Mallam Isa Shettima, said he was satisfied with the exercise and that except for the low turn out of voters, everything was free and fair. Vanguard Nigeria News All Progressives Congress, APC, yesterday, called for the cancellation of last Saturday's local government elections in Delta State conducted by the state Independent Electoral Commission, DSIEC, describing the elections as a sham and fraud. January 9, 2018 In "News" The Osun State governorship election which holds today will be the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC’s, proverbial quarter-final match before next year’s general election scheduled to hold in February 2015. August 9, 2014 In "Osun Polls" MORE governorship candidates emerged yesterday from the All Progressives Congress (APC) nationwide primaries. Among those who picked the party’s tickets are Akinwunmi Ambode in Lagos, former Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, who won the primaries in Kaduna; Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi); Dr. Nyere Anyim (Abia); Senator Mohammed Umaru… December 6, 2014 In "News"