The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, said it is in the process of drawing up a code of conduct for operators in the Nigerian gas market, as parts of efforts towards deepening the consumption of Liquefied Petroleum Gas, LPG, in the country. Only verified constituency projects’ll attract payments —FG In a presentation to journalists in Abuja, General Manager, Gas and Renewable Energy Department of the PPPRA, Mr. Olasupo Agbaje, further stated that the Federal Government plans to increase domestic production of LPG cylinders by 60 per cent  next year and 100 per cent by 2022. Agbaje explained that the development of the code of conduct was in collaboration with stakeholders in the gas sector. He listed the stakeholders as the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, MPR; Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR; Standards Organisation of Nigeria, SON; Weight and Measures and all operators in Government and the private sector. Agbaje said, “The PPPRA is involved in the collation and development of an appropriate and comprehensive code of conduct for operators in the gas market along the value chain, in collaboration with MPR, DPR, SON, Weight and Measures and all operators in Government and the private sector. Stakeholders’ engagements will be intensified to achieve this objective.” He further stated as  part of the National Gas Policy, NGP, the PPPRA, on behalf of the Federal Government initiated the Nigeria LPG Expansion and Penetration Programme through liaison between the office of the Vice President and the Ministry of Petroleum Resources for the Nigerian LPG Market. He added that as parts of the target of the programme, the Federal Government was working towards the injection of 20 million LPG cylinders into the domestic market, and was also targeting 60 per cent domestic production of cylinders in 2020 and 100 per cent by 2022. Budget: FG to pay oil workers N75bn salary in 2020 “The government was also targeting increasing domestic consumption of LPG to five million metric tonnes by 2022 and the removal of Value Added Tax, VAT, on domestic production of cylinders and LPG itself,” he added. Vanguard Mr Olasupo Agbaje, General Manager, Gas and Renewable Energy, Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, said the agency would release a Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG),  known as cooking gas, pricing template latest by mid-2020. December 10, 2019 In "Business" …PPPRA to develop gas pricing template June 2020 By Michael Eboh The Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA, Tuesday, blamed the high price of Liquefied Petroleum Gas, LPG, also known as cooking gas, in the market on incessant pirates attack on LPG vessels and the delay in LPG vessel movement.… December 10, 2019 In "News" It is often said that necessity is the mother of invention. The crises that bedevilled the petroleum products supply chain, especially Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), informed the Federal Government’s decision in May 2003 to set up the Petroleum Products Pricing and Regulatory Agency, PPPRA. January 23, 2019 In "News"