The National Association of University Students (NAUS), has accused the Prof Suleiman Bogoro led Tertiary Education Trust fund (TETfund) of mismanaging a whooping sum of N208 billion allotted to the body to execute special projects in public   universities across the nation, in 2019. NAUS called on the federal government to as a matter of urgency commence a comprehensive probe of the disbursement of the money by TETfund. The students’ body asked the Executive Secretary of TETfund,Prof  Bogoro to explain how the universities’  Managements had utilised the funds  , in line with zero tolerance for sleaze and corruption under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. NAUS , in a statement by its National Vice President, Southwest, Com. David Aridiogo, in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, said misappropriation of such a humungous amount, without considerable investigation to bring the alleged perpetrators to book would be a disservice to the nation . The NAUS leader said the probe became necessary following disquiet in virtually all the public universities over lack of basic facilities despite the colossal amount earmarked as intervention fund by FG . Aridiogo added that allowing such alleged abuse and the breach of public trust to be swept under the carpet will rubbish Buhari’s anti corruption crusade. “It is no gainsaying the fact  that TETfund has been swimming in the murky water of corruption since 2016 over allegations of misappropriation of over 200 billon naira ,which was swept under carpet without prosecution of those involved in the alleged misappropriation. “Nigeria’s university students see Tetfund as an agency that has critical roles to play in the education sector, but with the manner it was being run, attaining the FG’s projection for provision of facilities in the universities and other public institions will be a  mirage. “Nigeria’s university students , at home and Diaspora express serious concern over how N208 billion approved by the Federal Government as 2019 intervention funds for public higher Institutions across the country was being  managed by universities’  managements. “We use this medium to call the attention of the executive Secretary of Tetfund, Prof Suleiman Bogoro to explain how the projects for 2019 is being executed and delivered by  managements as the Commitee set up by him have submitted reports. “The direct disbursement shows that each university will receive N826.6 million naira,and we have 43 Federal Universities and 48 State Universities in Nigeria, this was besides the special  intervention funds for six universities across the geo-political zones, which amount to N1billion   each. “This was made public by the executive secretary, Prof  Bogoro on  July,12,2019 at the annual meeting with heads of Tetfund beneficiary institutions in Nigeria. “NAUS  finds it expedient  to demand for explanation from Tetfund over the alarming rate of infrastructural decay in public universities in Nigeria despite huge funding by the Federal Government”. NAUS bemoaned that the infrastructural gap, had caused hike   in school fees in public universities in the country under the pretext of  poor funding by TETfund. Vanguard News The Federal Government said it approved N100 million in 2011 for the establishment of Entrepreneurship Centres in both federal and state universities in the country. November 12, 2014 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari has approved the removal of the Executive Secretary of Tertiary Education Trust Fund,Tetfund,Dr Abdullahi Bichi Baffa. January 21, 2019 In "News" Prof. Suleiman Bogoro, the Executive Secretary, Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), on Thursday, said 28 Nigerian universities were ranked among the best tertiary institutions in Africa. Bogoro made this known at an interactive session with members of the Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) and the media, organised by Partners for Electoral… December 10, 2015 In "News"