Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, yesterday, disassociated itself from the rumoured plan to attack the Anambra State office of Department of State Services, DSS, by pro-Biafra agitators. Igbo agenda: We need to re-strategize – Obiorah Okonkwo In a statement in Awka, MASSOB insisted on its non-violence stance, adding that the organisation had no intention or plan to indulge in acts of violence or terrorism. The statement by the national secretary of MASSOB, Mr. Ibem Ugwuoke, read: “The rumoured plan to attack Anambra State headquarters of DSS with explosives and bombs by pro-Biafra agitators is not achievable. “It is a suicide mission that will derail our principle of non-violence and peaceful agitation. “MASSOB warns other pro-Biafra groups to resist and avoid activities that will endanger the lives of their members because hundreds of lives of gallant Biafra agitators had been lost unnecessarily. “We cannot heat up the polity now that millions of Biafrans are in their respective villages celebrating Christmas and upcoming new year. “The rumoured plan to attack Nigeria security outfit is orchestrated by rumour mongers and enemies of Biafra, who always delight in blackmailing the actualisation of the struggle for Biafra.” ECOWAS Court dismisses Nnamdi Kanu’s $800m suit against Nigeria MASSOB warned desperate politicians who, it alleged, were planning to use thugs and cultists in disguise as pro-Biafra agitators to cause mayhem in Igboland, especially in Anambra State because of election, to desist from such destructive ambition and resist illegalities that would discredit the image of pro Biafra groups. Vanguard OWERRI—The  leader of the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, Uchenna Madu, yesterday said there was never a time MASSOB planned to carry out attack on Abia State Government House or the home of the Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu. December 31, 2018 In "News" Following ground swell protests at Ontisha,Anambra State and other states of the south-east geopolitical zone staged by members of the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, and the Indigenous People of Biafra,IBOP,last Tuesday,calling on the Federal Government to release their detained leader, Nnamdi Kanu, the two… December 2, 2015 In "News" The peaceful protests staged by members of Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, and Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, over the continued detention of the Director, Radio Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu and the demand for creation of Biafra state may be halted following the resolve of the… December 9, 2015 In "News"