The Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Yekini Nabena, on Sunday urged one of the party’s governorship aspirants, Heineken Lokpobiri, to reconcile and identify with the Bayelsa Governor-elect, David Lyon. Nabena, who made the call while speaking with journalists in Abuja, implored Lokpobiri to drop his legal action against APC and Lyon in order to promote peace and unity in the party and the state. Lokpobiri, who is also a former Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, had challenged the emergence of Lyon as an APC candidate at the party’s governorship primary. He approached the court and sought to be declared the winner of the primary election and therefore the party’s authentic candidate. Nabena said: “It is common knowledge that Senator Heineken Lokpobiri has refused to congratulate and identify with the Bayelsa governor-elect, Mr. David Lyon, after his landslide election victory. “Lokpobiri has refused to drop his misplaced and ill-advised legal action taken against the APC and Lyon, with the hope of acquiring the Bayelsa governorship mandate with the support of his sponsors. “After the Bayelsa governorship election, stakeholders have held several meetings with Lokpobiri’s sponsors, who I am not disposed to name for political reasons.’’ According to the APC chieftain, some governors are positioning themselves to control Bayelsa State through Lokpobiri, and then use that as a springboard into other South-South states ahead of the 2023 presidential election. “I will not dwell on the political power play among APC leaders of the South-South for the soul of the region ahead of 2023. “However, my strong advice for the governors is that they should focus on the development of their states and not meddle in the affairs of Bayelsa State and the South-South. “Bayelsa and other oil-producing states of the South-South enjoy a fragile peace as a result of the commendable efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government to develop the zone and productively engage the youth. “We will not allow anybody to disrupt the peace of Bayelsa State in furtherance of their selfish political interests,” Nabena added. According to him, Buhari is a stickler for democratic principles and the rule of law, and so everyone must follow these principles. “It is Lokpobiri’s constitutional right to approach the court, even if his case has no merit. But I think it is important to let the world know that his actions are sponsored by outsiders in furtherance of their political interests ahead of 2023,” he concluded. (NAN)  Vanguard  Mr Yekini Nabena, the Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has called on one of the party’s governorship aspirant, Mr Heineken Lokpobiri, to reconcile and identify with Bayelsa Governor-elect, Mr David Lyon. December 1, 2019 In "News" BARRING any last minute change, all card carrying and registered members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, in Bayelsa State, will congregate at the 105 electoral wards across the eight local government areas of the state on Saturday to elect the standard-bearer of the party to fly the flag of… August 31, 2019 In "Politics" SOME elders drawn from the eight local councils of Bayelsa State, yesterday, threw their weight behind the decision of former Minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri to reject the outcome of the governorship primary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, held on Wednesday, saying the processes were flawed… September 6, 2019 In "News"