As part of measures to ensure speedy dispensation of justice in Lagos, the administration of Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu is to oversee a digital reform of courtrooms in the state. Speaking during a media parley on Tuesday at the Ministry of Justice, Alausa, Lagos, the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), said that the reforms would take place in 2020. He said the digital reforms would make the Lagos courtrooms first class in Africa. “We are going to support the judges by using the latest technology to assist them in their work. “Our goal is that before this administration leaves office, the courts should be completely paperless as well as deploying technology which is available in other parts of the world. “We do not want to see our judges writing down in longhand again. We also want to ensure that when people go to court, relying on audiovisual evidence will not be a difficult thing. “This administration wants to ensure that Lagos has the best digitally enhanced courts in Africa. “The governor is totally committed to doing this and we should be rolling out our plans in the next quarter of 2020,” onigbanjo said. (NAN) VANGUARD After about two months of vacation, justices, judges and magistrates of the appellate and trial courts across the federation are back to their duty posts. With a well deserved rest, they are expected to tackle with new zeal and vigour, the numerous new and old cases before their dockets. October 11, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights" Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo on Monday identified delay in the administration of justice as a major challenge that must be jointly tackled by all relevant stakeholders in the justice sector, just as he urged judges, lawyers and others to change their attitudes and stand up for what is right. January 30, 2017 In "News" Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode on Monday said the major reforms being implemented in both judiciary and security sectors in the State were targeted at creating a sound pedestal for residents to be productive and in turn boost the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the State. May 14, 2018 In "Law & Human Rights"