Union Bank has embarked on its 2019 UnionCares charity drive, spreading cheer to the less privileged and putting smiles on the faces of thousands across the country. This is in line with the financial institution’s commitment to support the communities within which it operates. Union Bank’s profit up by 5% to N15.6 bn in Q3 UnionCares is an annual initiative jointly sponsored and carried out by Union Bank and its employees, to give back to the society. This year, 7,500 care bags containing staple food items were distributed to people living in underserved communities nationwide. The bank’s Head of Corporate Communication and Marketing, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem described the exercise as one of the ways in which the bank supports charitable causes and contributes to the wellbeing of the needy, particularly during the festive season. She said: “Union  Bank has a strong legacy of supporting the communities we serve. We remain focused on leading the charge for social responsibility and impact, an outlook that underpins our choice of Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. SDGs: How NNPC/SEPLAT is changing lives in communities Our UnionCares initiative gives us the opportunity to touch as many lives as possible during the festive season and it is rewarding to see the level of impact the initiative has created.” Vanguard Union Bank, through its UnionCaresinitiative, provided relief for thousands of the underprivileged by donating over 6,000 care bags containing staple food items. January 14, 2019 In "Business" Emmanuel Alu, a customer of Union Bank recently emerged the lucky winner of a brand new MG3 car in the bank’s ongoing 100th anniversary data enrichment promo. August 10, 2017 In "News" SHAREHOLDERS of Union  Bank of Nigeria Plc have commended the debt recovery drive by its management as the bank’s Non Performing Loan, NPL ratio declined to 8.1 percent for the financial year ended December 31, 2018 from 20.8 percent in the corresponding period of 2017. May 13, 2019 In "Business"