ABUJA-THE Presidency last night spoke on the release of the detained Convener of Revolution Now Movement, Omoyele Sowore, saying that his arrest and detention had nothing to do with his journalism practice. The Presidency in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja stated that the President Muhammadu Buhari – led government believes strictly in observing the rule of law but must safeguard public security and will not allow trouble makers to incite the public and cause a breakdown of law and order. The statement read,  ‘The Presidency wishes to clarify the release on bail, of the Presidential Candidate of the African Action Congress in the February 2019 elections, Omoyele Sowore. ‘ Some international news outlets have mistakenly been describing his release as that of a journalist. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Buhari administration has never, since coming into office in 2015, detained a journalist, seized copies of newspapers or shut down a medium of information. ” Sowore called for a revolution to overthrow the democratically elected government of Nigeria. He did so on television, and from a privileged position as the owner of a widely read digital newspaper run from the United States of America. ” He founded an organisation, Revolution Now, to launch, in their own words, “Days of Rage”, with the publicised purpose of fomenting mass civil unrest and the elected administration’s overthrow. ” No government will allow anybody to openly call for destabilization in the country and do nothing. ” The government believes strictly in observing the rule of law but must safeguard public security and will not allow trouble makers to incite the public and cause a breakdown of law and order.”  Vanguard By Clifford Ndujihe, Dapo Akinrefon, Ben Agande, Johnbosco Agbakwuru Egufe Yafugborhi & Chinonso Alozie ABUJA—The Presidency yesterday, in response to plans for a nationwide protest today, has said that the only way to change government in a democracy was through the electoral process. Sowore, Presidential candidate of the African Action… August 5, 2019 In "Headlines" ANGRY youths and facilitators of the #RevolutionNow protest, yesterday, defied threats of security agencies to hold demonstrations in four states of the country and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. August 6, 2019 In "Headlines" By David O Royal The civil society group, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), has faulted the presidency for comparing Omoyele Sowore and Olawale Bakare with Boko Haram militants. Recall that the presidency had on Sunday released a statement where he explained why the Department of State Services, (DSS) is… December 9, 2019 In "News"