The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, on Wednesday, described poverty eradication as key to attaining sustainable development, saying the Federal Government would sustainable development in the country. Mohammed stated this at the Quarterly Public Lecture of the National Institute for Cultural Orientation (NICO) held in Abuja. The minister, who was represented by the Deputy Director, Festival and Carnivals in the Ministry of Information and Culture, Mrs. Memunat Idu-lah,  said the theme of the programme aligned with the government’s desire to reposition the economy and uplift the living standard of Nigerians through the non-oil sector. He said President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration is determined to lift 100 million Nigerians out of poverty in the next 10 years. In his remarks, the acting Executive Secretary of NICO, Mr. Louis Eriomala, said the theme of the lecture was chosen to underscore the critical relationship between culture and development. He said: “The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was conceived at the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 2012.” He added that the objective of the Rio conference was to produce a set of universal goals that would meet the urgent environmental, political, and economic challenges facing the world. (NAN)  Vanguard The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said that sustainability is absolutely necessary if tourism is to achieve its full potentials, which include being a catalyst for economic growth and poverty eradication. September 27, 2017 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed,  says sustenance of peace and security in Nigeria is the responsibility of traditional rulers, media, religious bodies and civil society organisations as stakeholders. January 30, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed said a letter he endorsed requesting for a loan from National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) to cover travelling expenses of a delegation to China was in order. May 14, 2016 In "News"