High-fat diets and obesity have been shown to increase the risk of breast cancer and worsen outcomes and diagnosis of breast cancer patients. PWAN Homes raises awareness for breast cancer(Opens in a new browser tab) A team of researchers from Dartmouth and Dartmouth-Hitchcock Norris Cotton Cancer Center sought to understand how fat from the diet might influence breast cancer cells. In their new study, they found that in addition to making new fat to fuel proliferation, breast cancer cells can take up large quantities of fat derived from the lipid-rich particles that circulate in the bloodstream. The particles bind to the breast cancer cell surface and are then taken into the cell by a novel mechanism not previously described in cancer cells. This uptake provides a large supply of fat that drives proliferation of the cancer cells. Their findings, is published in the Journal of Lipid Research. “We previously showed that fatty particles in the bloodstream may augment the growth of breast cancer cells,” says Dr William Kinlaw III. “Our new work demonstrates that breast cancer cells can engulf large amounts of preformed fat from the blood using an unexpected mechanism of fat particle uptake called ‘endocytosis of lipoproteins’.” The uptake results in metabolic reprogramming of the cells to take advantage of this “free lunch” and reveals a direct connection between dietary fat and cancer cell biology. Buffon lauds Ronaldo and Higuain for setting Juventus example(Opens in a new browser tab) The literature has also largely focused on manufacture of new fat by cancer cells as a therapeutic target. Many academic- and pharma-based efforts are underway to target the synthesis of new fat by cancer cells. Kinlaw’s work shows that “breast cancer cells can evade being killed by drugs that inhibit fat synthesis by simply taking up more exogenous fat particles,” he explains. Vanguard It is believed that cancer risk can be reduced by avoiding tobacco, limiting alcohol intake, limiting UV ray exposure from the sun and tanning beds and maintaining a healthy diet, level of fitness and seeking regular medical care February 4, 2017 In "Health" Nigeria is facing a double burden of infectious and chronic diseases. One of such dieseases is Cancer. July 3, 2011 In "News" According to WHO, one- third of all cancers can be prevented; another one- third can be effectively cured with early diagnosis; whilst palliative care can improve the quality of life of the last third February 5, 2017 In "Health"