The Kano State Government has banned persons of opposite genders from plying same commercial tricycles across the state from January, 2020. Governor Abdullahi Ganduje revealed this on Wednesday at the closing ceremony of 77th annual Islamic Vacation Course (IVC) organised by Zone A of Muslim Society of Nigeria (MSSN) held at Bayero University, Kano. Mr Ganduje, who was represented by Commander General of Hisbah Board, Harun Ibn-Sina, said the state government is committed towards upholding Islamic values. Commercial tricycles, popularly known as ‘A daidaita sahu’ in Kano, were introduced by a former governor of Kano, Ibrahim Shekarau, as a means of transportation for women only. This was after Mr Shekarau’s government banned commercial motorcyclists from conveying women. Since Mr Shekarau’s exit as governor, however, tricycles have been allowed to carry people of both sexes, a move the state government has now said will be changed. Meanwhile, Governor Ganduje at the event charged participants to face their studies and shun drug abuse. At the event, Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar lll, faulted the Christian Association of Nigeria’s reaction to a United States classification of Nigeria as one of the nations where religious freedom is not guaranteed. In his address, the Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi ll, cautioned Muslims against “growing their needs beyond their resources.” The emir attributed the increasing rate of out of school children in Muslim North to “uncontrolled polygamy and high rate of divorce.” The Islamic Vacation Course (IVC) was attended by students of secondary schools and tertiary institutions from the 19 Northern states and Abuja. PREMIUM TIMES Vanguard News Nigeria ABAKALIKI—MOVEMENT for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, yesterday condemned the proposed traditional chieftaincy title to be given to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State by HRH, Eze Eberechi Dick in Aba, Abia State. August 14, 2018 In "News" Kano was thrown into shock Sunday morning following the death of an illustrious politician and former Deputy Governor of Kano state, Engr Magaji Abdullahi. July 24, 2016 In "News" Kano residents have commended the reconciliation of Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje with the Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammadu Sanusi II by a committee initiated by Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Gov. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti in Abuja on Friday. June 8, 2019 In "News"