9mobile, has introduced new data plans and revamped its existing ones to enable its customers have more value for their money. ‘ We received 805 election appeals across Nigeria — Bulkachuwa The network said with the latest development, its customers will have more data to stay online and enjoy superior browsing and streaming experience, as quality data just got more affordable. In what is described as an early Christmas gift, 9mobile is offering new and existing customers on the network an amazing increase in value at the same price while also introducing aggressively priced new data offers to ensure that all segments of customers can enjoy the superior online browsing and streaming experience from the network Acting Director, Marketing at 9mobile, Layi Onafowokan, disclosed that subscribers will now enjoy exciting new data plans like 1GB plus free access to social media sites (WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram) valid for one day at just N300 or 2GB plus free access to social media sites valid for three days at just N500 Onafowokan added that customers interested in the weekly plans can now go for 7GB plus free access to social media sites valid for seven days at just N1,500 or get 15gb for N5000 valid for 30days if they prefer the monthly plans. IBB’s rumoured death: Call to enact social media regulation ― Sen. Sani Musa “We are a caring network that believes in showing love to our customers especially in this season of giving. We want them to be able to browse and stream online without the fear of quickly exhausting their data and having to spend more. We believe doing this will boost the internet experience of our customers across the country. The beauty of this revamp is that it’s not limited to a few packages; it involves all our data plans,” Onafowokan said. Vanguard 9mobile, a telecommunications company, on Friday expressed gratitude to its customers and Nigerians for their steadfast, support and loyalty in 2018. December 28, 2018 In "News" In an effort to provide Nigerians with high-speed data and deepen mobile broadband internet access, Internet provider, 9mobile has collaborated with search engine company, Google and mobile devices manufacturer, Transsion, the parent company of Tecno, Infinix and Itel brands, to roll-out an offer that puts smartphones in the hands of… December 11, 2019 In "Technology" Nigerians woke up on Friday morning into the weekend to behold a promotional eye- catching outdoor billboard displays at the heart of which are the clichés- ‘Data Is Old School’ and – ‘And YouThought Data Was Cool’ with a dedicated hashtag #MoreThanJustData. This was cleverly spotted in several locations around… June 25, 2019 In "Technology"