The Nasarawa State Government said on Saturday it would punish violators of the state sanitation laws. The state’s Commissioner for Environment and Natural Resources, Musa Ibrahim, stated this while monitoring the monthly sanitation exercise in Lafia, the state capital. The commissioner, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Rilwanu Ciroma, said stringent measures would be taken against defaulters in subsequent exercise. He said the enforcement team would be reinforced with more security personnel during the exercise to ensure total compliance. Ibrahim explained that the decision to strengthen the enforcement team was necessitated by the failure to observe the exercise in some markets and motor parks in the state. He said: “Cleanliness is next to godliness, hence the government’s determination to ensure that residents maintained high environmental hygiene.” The commissioner disclosed that more than 100 persons were prosecuted by the mobile court for violating environmental sanitation laws during the exercise. Meanwhile, the state Chief Environments Officer, Abubakar Mohammed, said the offenders were arrested during sanitation hours doing their respective businesses. Mohammed, who is also a prosecutor, told the court that their actions violated section 9 (2) of the state environmental sanitation laws. He, therefore, urged the court to sanction them accordingly to serve as a deterrent to others in the future. The judge, Shittu Umar, after listening to the submission by the prosecutor, sentenced the offenders to prison terms of between two and four months with options of fine. (NAN)  Vanguard Mr Bolaji Oyeleye, Ogun state Commissioner for Environment has warned traders in the state to stop dumping refuse in drainages or face stiff penalty. November 10, 2017 In "News" Dr. Ali Makoda, the Kano State Commissioner of Environment, says erosion destroy more than 200 graves at Tudun Murtala grave yard in Nasarawa Local Government Area of the state. October 28, 2017 In "News" As council moves to enforce by-law Residents blamed for degradation of environment By Olasunkanmi Akoni and Monsuru Olowoopejo Residents in the state have urged Lagos State Government to re-introduce the monthly environmental sanitation exercise to engender a sustainable cleaner environment as well as tackle threatening environmental issues. Recall that the… September 11, 2019 In "News"