Russia is to set up a new online site for its national encyclopedia after President Vladimir Putin said Wikipedia was unreliable and should be replaced. The move will ensure people can find “reliable information that is constantly updated on the basis of scientifically verified sources of knowledge,” a government resolution said. Putin last month proposed replacing the crowd-sourced online encyclopedia Wikipedia with an electronic version of the Great Russian Encyclopaedia – the successor to the Soviet Union’s main encyclopedia. “This, at any rate, would be reliable information offered in a modern form,” Putin said then. In 2015, Russia briefly blocked the Russian-language version of Wikipedia for an article containing information on cannabis under legislation banning sites with drug-related material. Moscow has also introduced tougher online controls over the Russian segment of the internet so that it can keep on functioning even if cut off from foreign infrastructure. The Great Russian Encyclopaedia is already available in a basic electronic format. The new online portal will cost about 2 billion roubles ($31 million), Sergei Kravets, an editor for the Great Russian Encyclopaedia was quoted as saying on Nov. 21 by TASS news agency. The government will also set up a national research and education center for the Great Russian Encyclopaedia, the resolution, signed by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, said. Source: Reuters Vanguard News President Vladimir Putin of Russia said on Tuesday vowed that all those responsible for the tragic fire in a shopping mall in the Siberian city of Kemerovo would be punished. March 27, 2018 In "News" Russia's internet watchdog on Tuesday warned Facebook it would be banned in 2018 unless it complies with a law on storing local users' data. September 26, 2017 In "News" Russian President Vladimir Putin supervised his intelligence agencies’ hacking of the U.S. presidential election and turned it from a general attempt to discredit American democracy to an effort to help Donald Trump, three U.S. officials said on Thursday December 16, 2016 In "News"