“Jumanji: The Next Level” iced out “Frozen II” at the North American box office this weekend, raking in an estimated $60.1 million in its debut, industry watcher Exhibitor Relations reported Sunday. Sony’s latest “Jumanji” sequel stars Jack Black, Dwayne (“The Rock”) Johnson and Kevin Hart as a group of friends returning to the dangerous but fascinating world of the Jumanji game. Disney’s “Frozen II” — a return to Arendelle and the magical animated world of Queen Elsa, sister Anna and the gang — took in an estimated $19.2 million for the Friday-to-Sunday period. In third place was Lionsgate’s droll murder mystery “Knives Out,” at $9.3 million. Daniel Craig stars as a Southern detective hired by an anonymous client to unravel the bloody death of a wealthy patriarch. Fourth spot went to new Warner Bros. release “Richard Jewell,” a revisiting of the real-life tale of an Atlanta security guard falsely accused of playing a part in the 1996 Olympics bombing. The film sparked controversy by suggesting that a now-dead female journalist traded sex for inside information. At $5 million, it was one of the poorest openings ever for a Clint Eastwood movie. In fifth was Universal’s new slasher film “Black Christmas,” which appropriately opened on Friday the 13th, with a $4.4 million take that nearly recouped the film’s $5 million cost. It features a group of sorority sisters stranded on a deserted campus over the holidays — naturally, fending off a killer. Rounding out the top 10 were: “Ford v. Ferrari” ($4.1 million) “Queen & Slim” ($3.6 million) “A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood” ($3.4 million) “Dark Waters” ($2 million) “21 Bridges” ($1.2 million) VANGUARD Sony's family-oriented movie "Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle" staked out the top spot at the North American box office this holiday weekend, gripping first place for the second straight week. January 14, 2018 In "Entertainment" Disney's "Black Panther" sunk its claws into the top spot once again this weekend at the North American box office, taking an estimated $108 million, industry estimates showed Sunday. Following a record-shattering opening weekend -- raking in $242.2 million -- the frenzy to see the 18th entry in the Marvel… February 25, 2018 In "Showtime People" The latest episode in Disney's mammothly popular "Star Wars" series has passed the $1 billion mark in worldwide revenues in just three weeks, a Disney spokesperson said Sunday. December 31, 2017 In "News"