Giuseppe Iachini has been appointed coach of struggling Fiorentina, the Serie A club confirmed on Monday. Iachini, 55, replaces Vincenzo Montella who was sacked on Saturday with the team trailing in 15th place, three points above the relegation zone. “The current ranking has forced us to change coach,” said Fiorentina owner Rocco Commisso. “We chose Iachini because he is a man of substance, tied to Florence and Fiorentina. “Now we have to stay united and get back on the right track as soon as possible.” He added: “I would like to thank Vincenzo Montella for the commitment and professionalism he showed during his time at the club.” Former Fiorentina midfielder Iachini lined out 127 times for the Tuscany club between 1989 and 1994 during his playing career. Since turning to coaching in 2002 he has managed Italian teams including Sampdoria, Palermo, Sassuolo and Udinese. He has been without a club since being sacked by Empoli last March, after just four months in charge. Iachini will be presented to the press on December 28, leading his first training session the following day. Fiorentina lost 4-1 at home to Roma on Friday and have taken just two points from their last seven games. Buoyed at the start of the season by the arrival of Franck Ribery, the team has been struggling since the Frenchman suffered a serious ankle injury that will keep him out until February. Fiorentina have started their winter break and do not play again in Serie A until January 6 against Bologna. VANGUARD Fiorentina announced on Saturday that they had fired coach Vincenzo Montella with the club struggling in 14th in Serie A. "Vincenzo Montella has been relieved of his duties as head coach of the first team," the club announced on its web site. "The decision was taken following a long and… December 21, 2019 In "News" Cristiano Ronaldo returns to Italian league action after his four-goal spree for Portugal as Juventus head for Fiorentina on Saturday also boosted by coach Maurizio Sarri's highly-anticipated debut on the bench after a bout of pneumonia. September 13, 2019 In "News" Franck Ribery said Thursday his hunger for success drove him to turn down lucrative offers from clubs in China and the Middle East in favour of Serie A's Fiorentina in Italy. August 22, 2019 In "News"