Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State has given awards to community papers and radio stations for their contributions to the development of the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that The National Thinker, Eggon-Newspaper, Breeze 99.9 FM Lafia, Option FM Akwanga, Maloni FM Keffi, were among the media organisations recognised by the Governor. The award was part of the programme marking the first ‘Annual Media Dinner’, organised by the governor on Monday in Lafia. Speaking during the programme, Yakubu Lamai, Director of Strategic Communication and Press Affairs to the governor, said the award was in recognition of the contributions of the outfits in publicising government activities in the state. Lamai said given the contributions journalists and media organisations were making, the least the government would do was to give them an award and encourage them to continue with the good work. He said the State Government would continue to support media practitioners by creating an enabling environment for them to operate. In an interview with NAN, Joel Ogapa, Publisher of National Thinker, said the award came to him as a surprise. “I thought nobody was noticing the little work I have been doing but was amazed to be mentioned and called to come forward to receive an award of recognition. “It would spoil me to do more and I promised to continue to be professional and balanced in my publication,” the publisher said. Vanguard By David Odama Gov. Sule of Nasarawa State  has  said that his administration is in a hurry to educate  the people of Nasarawa state. Sule also said it is his resolve to enhance the educational level of the people of Nasarawa state, developed and industrialized the state before his exit… September 17, 2019 In "Education" By David Odama - Lafia Nasarawa  State Governor,  Abdullahi Sule has passionately appealed to indigenes of the state to join him and support his administration to further develop the state. Sule made the appeal on Saturday while speaking as Special Guest of Honour at a one-day conference on harnessing the… November 30, 2019 In "News" Gov. Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa state has stated his government’s resolve to provide potable water and sanitation facilities in public schools in the state. December 12, 2019 In "News"