Most Rev. Nicholas Okoh, the Anglican Primate of all Nigeria, has urged Christian faithful to imbibe the spirit of giving to rescue humanity. Okoh who stated this on Christmas day, at the Cathedral Church of the Advent with the theme: Worship the King, stressed that Christ came at Christmas on a mission. He added that the mission was to rescue human beings from their predicaments. “Human condition can be improved in our country today, so either in our individual capacities, local government, state or Federal Government, we can do more to improve on our conditions. “We can do better as humans and as a country and we must have it in mind that material for its sake is not worth having, it must be applied for its purpose. “If you apply material or money for its purpose, then we will achieve a higher level of society, people will live better, people will work better, relationship will become better and people will be happier. “Christ came to improve the relationship between man and God, Jesus came to save his people from their sins. “The Bible said, policies are made to deliver the poor from the poor condition, rescuing people from bad conditions, we must make our policies at all levels right, starting from the family up to government levels,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria The Most Rev. Nicholas Okoh, Bishop of Abuja and Primate of all Nigeria (Anglican Communion), has urged the Federal Government to tackle the supply of electricity and health facilities in the country. December 26, 2017 In "News" AS the country joins the rest of the world to celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ today, President Goodluck Jonathan has urged the citizenry to expect massive improvements in power supply, public infrastructure, healthcare, education and job creation among others next year. December 25, 2012 In "Headlines" Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta has charged Nigerians to resist the temptations of speaking evil of the country and its leaders. The governor gave the advice on Wednesday at the opening of the Standing Committee of the Church of Nigeria; Anglican Communion at St. Peter’s Cathedral Church, Asaba. The session,… September 25, 2019 In "News"