South Africa-born TV presenter and actress, Pearl Thusi and British-based Congolese, Eddie Kadi were the cynosure of eyes at the awards night. Their combination as co-hosts spiced up the awards night. Thusi, who described Nigerians as very hospitable and warm people returned to host the awards ceremony for the second time after she hosted it last year, in Accra, Ghana. She dazzled the audience while on stage in her radiant red gown designed by Maryam Elisha. The mother of two, was in her element doing what she knows how to do best. When she wasn’t draped in skin-bearing gowns or African prints, she was serving the audience looks from the shore. Sharing flamy snaps of her face beat and looks all done in Lagos, the actress took to social media to let everyone know that the country might swallow her up. She said she might not come back to SA because of the face beats that side are on another level. The same with Kadi, who was attending the event for the first time. He was exceptionally good in his craft, and everyone kept talking about the rib-cracking jokes he was reeling out at the show. The two superstars held the audience spellbound with their sense of humour and carriage. Vanguard Ghanaian-born American actor and comedian, Michael Blackson, popularly known as ‘The African King of Comedy’ alongside South African actress and talk show host, Pearl Thusi as well as Anita Erskine will be taking the centre stage as the host and hostesses for the grand finale of the  All Africa Music… November 9, 2018 In "Showtime People" Although the show was scheduled to commence at 7.30 p.m. after a three-hour red carpet session, it didn’t until almost 9.00 p.m and even at that the guests were not complaining. However, when it finally did, the first performance, a beautiful choreography championing African unity and growth, compensated for the… November 30, 2018 In "Entertainment" By TOFARATI IGE Someone once said that beautiful people tend to have more beautiful and easier lives than others. What the person didn’t mention is that females with tantalising curves in all the right places on their bodies tend to often get their desires met faster than others. If you… May 14, 2016 In "Entertainment"