The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has again challenged President Muhammadu Buhari, urging him to make public his financial transactions and spending. Equity market sustains bearish trend as NSE Index down by 0.2%(Opens in a new browser tab) The opposition party equally asked him to publish details, including the beneficiaries, the purpose and the amount of each payment, in line with the Presidential directive to the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). Disclosing this in a statement on Monday, Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary, said that “it is not enough for President Muhammadu Buhari to issue spending directives to MDAs, without his Presidency, which received billions of naira in budgetary allocation, leading by example. “Nigerians deserve to know how much is allocated to the Presidency, the various expenditure subheads, process of award of contracts, the contractors, the beneficiaries, amounts paid and payment system. “Perhaps such would explain why certain individuals who are close to the Presidency live in ostentatious opulence and flaunt very expensive lifestyle in the same country where millions of citizens wallow in abject poverty, hunger, homelessness and disease. “It is worrisome that the Buhari Presidency has failed to make details of its yearly budget and expenditure public, despite several demands for openness, which raises anxieties and allegations of huge sleazes and corrupt concealments against certain officials and cabal in the Presidency. “The PDP recalls several ugly scenarios around the Presidency, including that arrest, in October, of a suspected scammer, Abdulrauf Illyasu, who even enjoyed an office accommodation within the safety and cover of the Presidential villa. $22.7bn Loan: Buhari has provided borrowing details ― Senate(Opens in a new browser tab) “This is in addition to the arrest of a said confidant of Mr. President, Nasir Danu, at Heathrow Airport, United Kingdom, for alleged international passport scam and money laundering while allegedly ferrying currencies for persons said to be close to the Presidency. “The PDP also reminds Nigerians of the case of the former aide to the First Lady, Mr. Baba-Inna, arrested for alleged financial fronting as well as the confession of one Amina Mohammed who, while being paraded by the Department of State Services (DSS) in 2018, stated in public that persons close to the Presidency were involved in serial fraud and looting of public resources under the cover of the some elements in the Presidency. BMO attributes economic growth to Buhari’s political will(Opens in a new browser tab) “The PDP therefore challenges the Presidency to clear these anxieties by opening up and publishing details of its budget and expenditure for Nigerians to see.” Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said President Muhammadu Buhari has no moral rectitude to fight corruption, "being a direct beneficiary of the corruption freebies deployed by his party leaders to fund his 2015 presidential campaign." March 31, 2018 In "News" Erstwhile National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Chief Olisa Metuh, has opened up on his listing among “treasury looters” by the Federal Government, saying the administration, by the action, had resorted to subjecting him to double trial, in the media and in the courts. April 1, 2018 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has accused President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress, APC, of plotting to fleece Nigerians through the extortion of N1.2 billion from poor beneficiaries of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN’s Anchor Borrowers’ Programme, to fund the President  2019 re-election bid. December 20, 2018 In "Politics"