Algerian prosecutors on Tuesday sought a one-year prison sentence for the country’s richest man Issad Rebrab who went on trial accused of tax, banking and customs offences. The 74-year-old, who heads Algeria’s biggest privately-owned conglomerate Cevital, was one of several tycoons arrested in April as part of a corruption investigation. The probe followed the resignation of president Abdelaziz Bouteflika after weeks of mass protests against his 20-year rule. Rebrab is being tried along with two companies, Cevital subsidiary Evcon and the Jordan-based Housing Bank for Trade and Finance, according to national news agency APS, which reported the prosecutors’ sentencing request. They are charged with breaking laws on foreign exchange and fund transfers as well as forgery and false custom declarations. Rebrab denies the accusations. Forbes magazine lists Rebrab as Algeria’s richest man and the sixth-wealthiest in Africa, with a net worth of $3.9 billion in 2019. Cevital employs 18,000 people, produces electronics, steel and food, and in recent years it has acquired businesses in France. While his businesses flourished under Bouteflika’s rule, Rebrab had backed the protests that ultimately forced the president to resign in April. His company has said it was “astonished” by his arrest. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Algeria’s Interim President, Abdelkader Bensalah, has sacked Justice Minister, Slimane Brahim, the presidential office said on Wednesday without giving an explanation. July 31, 2019 In "News" The Forbes magazine has named the Amazon founder and chief executive, Jeff Bezos, as the world’s richest man with 112bn dollar fortune. March 6, 2018 In "News" Between 1983 and 1985, Peter Onu of Nigeria was Acting Secretary-General of the OAU. At the 1985 Summit in Addis Ababa, statesmen like Julius Nyerere, President of Tanzania, lobbied for his election as substantive Secretary-General. However, there was a major stumbling block to Peter Onu’s candidature: his Head of State,… February 3, 2015 In "Femi Aribisala"