A paramilitary officer, Mr Innocent Okoro, an official of the Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit, on Thursday, sustained severe injury when the taskforce team was allegedly attacked by 14 commercial motorcyclists, popularly called “Okada” riders at under bridge, Oshodi area of the state. Chairman of the agency, Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, who confirmed he received a distress call that about 14 illegal commercial motorcyclists attacked the enforcement team of the agency and wounded an officer, Okoro, with operational vehicles damaged. The Lagos taskforce chairman, Egbeyemi narrated that immediately after the team was attacked, the investigation revealed that those 14 assailants ran into a compound at Igbehinadun Street around Oshodi and locked themselves up. According to him “The enforcement team with the support of other officials coming from enforcement operations at Lagos Island chased them to the compound and discovered a large number of motorcyclists and miscreants smoking Indian hemp within a residential house” He confirmed that while some of them escaped through the fence, the Lagos taskforce team arrested 46 of them including those who carried out the attack with 231 commercial motorcycles impounded on restricted routes around Oshodi. “Out of these 46 arrested suspects, 18 were released after a thorough screening and the Lagos State Commissioner of Police CP Hakeem Odumosu directed that the remaining 28 be prosecuted in court.” While urging all motorcyclists and road users across the state to operate within the ambit of the law, the Chairman restated the determination of the agency to ensure that all residents in the state comply with the Lagos State Road Traffic Law of 2012. Vanguard News Nigeria. Operatives of the Lagos State Taskforce have impounded 109 commercial motorcycles, popularly called okada, for operating on restricted routes at Second Rainbow, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, Lagos State. April 1, 2019 In "News" THE impression that the law against driving against the traffic has been suspended in Apapa and environs on account of the prevailing gridlock there may  have been reinforced by the fact that law enforcement agents continue to look the other way  as more motorists take to the one-way option. May 22, 2018 In "News" I started smoking hemp at age 10, eleven year old suspect confesses By Olasunkanmi Akoni Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences Unit, have arrested 71 miscreants around railway-line in popular Oshodi area of the state and recovered various hard drugs in the process. The… September 18, 2019 In "News"