No fewer than 500 Students from the warri south west Local Government  will benefit from the Hon. Guwor  Emomotimi Foundation’s free JAMB form project/scholars programme. The students, drawn from the 10 different wards from warri south west Local Government Area will receive free JAMB UTME 2020 forms and scholarship grant to help them in their educational pursuit. READ ALSO: Emomotimi, Member representing Warri south west speaking during the orientation ceremony held on the 19th of December 2019 at his  foundation office in Ekpan, implored the students to work hard as he shared his grass to grace story in a bid to encourage the students. He mentioned that this is also in fulfilment of his campaign promise to promote equal access to education for the good people of Warri South West Local Government Area. Emomotimi stressed on the fact that education is a ticket to a great future as he is a product of education and he believes that warri south west Local Government Area will be better when its youths are well educated. The consulting partner for the project Mr. Zion Oshiobugie, a renowned educationist and social Eduprenuer took the students through the JAMB UTME process, from start to finish and stressed the importance of getting their National identification number to enable for a smooth UTME registration process. The beneficiaries in their response thanked  Hon. Guwor Emomotimi for the kind gesture via his foundation and prayed for God’s continued blessing upon him. In attendance was Hon. Authur Akpordubakaye. Vice Chairman Warri south west Local Government  Area and other notable Leaders and Councillors of Warri South West.  DELTA State Governor, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has said those in authority faces a lot of temptations and should be prayed for always to enable them to carry out the right decisions. July 14, 2019 In "News" THE Executive Assistant to the Deputy Governor of Delta State and Egwa Community Chairman, Hon. Emomotimi Guwor  yesterday  distributed food items worth several millions of naira to celebrate with his constituents. December 31, 2017 In "News" Executive Assistant to the Deputy Governor of Delta State, Mr. Emomotimi Dennis Guwor, has pledged quality representation for the Ijaws and Itsekiris of Warri South-West Constituency if elected into the Delta State House of Assembly. May 13, 2018 In "News"