The consensus among members of the Musical Copyright Society Nigeria (MCSN) who attended the Society’s Annual General Meeting which held in Lagos on December 11th was that with the AGM, MCSN has rebuilt the confidence they once had in the pioneer society. To most of them it was the sign that the Society is back and back for good. Champions League: Bayern seeking confidence boosting victory against Spurs According to a long standing member of the society, Myke Pam, with the AGM all doubting Thomases who hitherto thought MCSN can never recover from the ten year hiatus from copyright administration have been put to shame from the successful conduct of the AGM “As a longstanding member of MCSN the successful conduct of the AGM has rekindle the confidence we as members once had in the society. It is a statement that our dear society is back and back for good,” he said. Rapper, Eedris Abdulkaeem was emphatic that the worst is over for MCSN, “and no Jupiter can ever shake our society again”. he said. His likes who refused to join any other society knew that the persecution of MCSN was a temporary thing and that the society will overcome and come back stronger and bigger, he revealed. The attendance was impressive as members came from as far as Calabar, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Abuja. The four agenda business of the day was very prompt. At 12.30 pm when the chairman of the board of the society, Orits Williki called for prayers and commencement of the business of the day, it was action all the way. Stay away from N2.1trn pension fund ― PDP warns Buhari, APC The Chairman of the board delivered his welcome address. The Directors report followed with the Auditors report and statements of financial position. These reports were adopted and approved by the members of the general assembly of the society. Vanguard “We started from half of a table,” he says, a smile playing on his lips as he reminisces this Monday afternoon at his swank off Allen Avenue office, Ikeja, Lagos. “One of the junior lawyers would be using half the table, I would be using the other half. Gradually, I… October 9, 2010 In "The Arts" The unending feud between the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) and Musical Copyright Society of Nigeria, MCSN took a new dimension last Tuesday when the former wielded the big stick against the latter through a raid at its Lagos office. September 21, 2012 In "Entertainment" Barely a week after the Federal High Court in Lagos, awarded N5.9 billion “special damages” against Multichoice Nigeria in an eight-year-old copyright infringement legal battle between the South Africa firm and the Musical Copyright Society of Nigeria, MCSN, members of Copyright Society of Nigeria,COSON, have kicked against the judgement, describing… February 2, 2018 In "Entertainment"