President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday charged universities in the country on the need for them to increase their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to enhance sustainable education. Buhari stated this during the 44th convocation ceremony of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State. The President, who was represented by the Deputy Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission (NUC), Dr. Suleiman Raman-Yusuf, said the present administration had contributed a lot to the development of education in the country. According to him, the future of Nigeria lies in the mode and quality of education provided to the citizens, especially the youth, as they are the nation’s future. While reiterating that the government alone could not fund education, Buhari noted that in most developed countries, universities support their governments in the funding of education. He urged universities to contribute their quota to the current efforts to diversify the nation’s economy and create opportunities for economic growth. He said: “It is the responsibility of all and sundry to move the nation forward and towards the right direction.” He warned members of staff of the universities against abuse of office, especially sexual harassment, saying that anyone found wanting would be dealt with in accordance with the law. (NAN)  Vanguard   Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has taken exception to a proposed plan to establish a private university to be named after President Muhammadu Buhari by his wife Mrs Aisha Buhari saying the move is antithetical to the development of existing public universities in the country. April 24, 2019 In "News" Harris Emanuel -Uyo President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the gradual erosion of morals and scholarships in the nation’s universities. The President stated this during the 25th convocation ceremony of the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, held at the weekend. The university awarded degree certificates to 4,308 graduates comprising 642… November 3, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has disclosed that his administration was aware of the unique role qualitative education can play in curbing corruption, terrorism, violent crimes and other Social vices that have held Nigeria hostage. April 13, 2019 In "News"