The Anambra State government has made available 11 luxury buses to offer free mass transit services to the people across the state from December 1, 2019, to January 5, 2020 The designated routes include Awka to Onitsha by Old Road; Awka to Onitsha by expressway to Upper Iweka and Awka to Otuocha by Aguleri. Other routes are Onitsha to Ogbaru by LGA Secretariat; Awka to Nnewi by Nkwo triangle; Awka to Oko and Ekwulobia to Onitsha. Managing Director of Transport Company of Anambra State (TRACAS), Dr Ify Madukasi, said weekend that the buses would ply designated routes which had been identified as carrying heavy passenger traffic and being densely populated zones. She said: “Governor Willie Obiano, in his usual magnanimity, is declaring free transportation services to Ndi Anambra this Christmas season. As you all know, it is a season of joy, happiness and celebration.” According to her, the governor considered it proper to lessen the burden associated with the usual hike in transportation services on commuters during festive seasons, hence the idea of the free transport that covers the three senatorial zones of the state. She observed that the programme was coming at a time the state government was also embarking on massive road rehabilitation, as well as providing adequate security network to guarantee the safety of life and property. Vanguard News  ANAMBRA State government has directed commercial motorcycle operators in Awka and Onitsha to withdraw their services by  July 1  this year, even as the state government said yesterday that the ban was in the best interest of the state and the people. May 23, 2018 In "News" NO fewer than 500 students of the Anambra State –owned Nwafor Orizu College of Education, Nsugbe yesterday took to the streets of Awka to protest alleged extortion by officials of the state government. August 3, 2017 In "News" Former commercial motorcyclists banned from operating by the Anambra Government have expressed their desire to be included to benefit from the 1,000 shuttle buses provided by the government. July 12, 2018 In "Metro"