Two pensioners have been killed and tens of thousands of homes left without electricity as gale-force winds and flooding hit southwestern France. Eleven departments remained on orange alert weather warnings late Saturday. A 70-year-old man died in the Pyrenees-Atlantique in the Basque Country on Friday when his vehicle struck a fallen tree. In Espiens in the Lot-et-Garonne region, a 76-year-old man was swept away by rising waters when he went out to fetch his mail on Friday. Rescuers found his body 24 hours later more than a kilometre from his home. Five other people were injured, two seriously when trees fell on their vehicles. As many as 40,000 homes were without power on Saturday afternoon and some 25,000 remained so from Normandy down to the southwest by early evening, electricity utility operator Enedis told AFP. A company spokesperson added some 2,000 technicians had been deployed to restore power to those customers, urging people to call a dedicated hotline if they saw power lines had come down. Overnight, some 400,000 homes had suffered power outages as floods inundated parts of the region with waters rising to up to nearly nine feet (2.7 metres) and by 30 centimetres per hour in some areas. Flooding and landslides cut off access to the skiing stations of Gourette and Artouste, while the distribution of drinkable water in the commune of Laruns was interrupted. In the nearby Landes department, about 600 people were evacuated on Friday as a preventive measure in areas where the Gaves de Pau and Oloron rivers converge. “We are getting used to this now,” a weary pensioner who gave his name as Christian told AFP. “We put everything on the upper levels, and we clear out everything from the garage,” he said. But water levels were slowly falling in the area, local rescue force commander Olivier Loustau told AFP, and clean-up operations would probably start Sunday. The Alps, where weather services had warned of heightened avalanche risk, were earlier downgraded from the orange alert level, as was upper Corsica where winds had been packing speeds of up to 150 km/h. [AFP] Vanguard News Nigeria. Winds gusting up to hurricane force battered west and central France on Monday, leaving two people dead and 600,000 homes without electricity, authorities said. March 6, 2017 In "News" Hurricane Matthew killed almost 900 people and displaced tens of thousands in Haiti before plowing northward on Saturday just off the southeast U.S. coast. October 8, 2016 In "News" At least three people, including an 11-year-old, have died in storm-related incidents since Hurricane Irene slammed into the US east coast on Saturday, officials said. August 27, 2011 In "News"