The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate alleged negligence of a robbery victim, by one-Jolad Hospital in Gbagada, Lagos State, leading to her death. The House mandated its Committee on Healthcare Services to expeditiously investigate the alleged refusal of the Management of R-Jolad hospital to provide immediate medical attention to the victim, Miss Moradeunon on arrival to the hospital, which eventually led to her death and report back to the House as soon as possible. The resolution also directed the Inspector General of Police to “investigate, arrest and to prosecute all the perpetrators of this heinous act in line with the relevant provisions of the Compulsory Treatment and Care of Victims of Gunshot Act, 2017 and the Criminal Code Act”. These followed a motion brought by Rep. Olawale Raji (APC-Lagos), wherein he informed the House that “the report of the armed robbery attack on Miss Moradeun Balogun on December 2, 2019, in the Gbagada area of Lagos, consequent upon which she was rushed by patriotic citizens to R-Jolad hospital, which was the nearest hospital to the scene of the attack, but unfortunately she was refused medical attention resulting to her untimely death due to excessive loss of blood”. “The alleged refusal of medical attention to the victim is a violation of the Compulsory Treatment and Care of Victims of Gunshot Act, 2017. “It’s saddening that seven (7) days after the incident, no arrest has been made by the Nigerian Police. “The conduct of doctors/hospitals in refusing medical attention to victims of gunshots and fatal attacks is a breach of the Hippocratic Oath sworn to by medical practitioners on induction. “If the provisions of the relevant laws are enforced and punitive actions taken against erring doctors and hospitals by the police and medical/professional bodies respectively, this rising tide will long be abated”, Rep. Raji argued. Ruling on the motion, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, also called for the observance of a minute silence in memory of Miss Moradeun Balogun, as prayed by the mover of the motion. Vanguard News Nigeria. Citizens United for the Rehabilitation of Errants, otherwise known as CURE-Nigeria, has appealed to the Police to investigate the veracity of the allegation that General Hospital, Garki, refused to treat a deceased female Corps member, Linda Igwetu, who recently died of police gunshot wound. July 14, 2018 In "News" An Ikeja High Court was yesterday told how two policemen demanded money from a community to investigate an alleged armed robbery case. June 3, 2010 In "News" An act of kindness rendered to a robbery victim by SP Celestina Kalu,  Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Ogudu Police Station in Lagos was on Monday rewarded by the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who personally invited the kind-hearted police officer to the State House for  honor and recognition.… October 8, 2019 In "News"