Whether celebrating birthdays, weddings or any occasion for that matter, getting the right theme or the creative idea for the photoshoot is as important as the event itself in this age of social media craze. And for actress, Chioma Chijioke who became Mrs Anosike last, her photoshoot to celebrate her wedding anniversary was as unique as it was instructive of the complexion of the media turf in Nigeria. She cut a picture of a happy bride, gleefully in love with her man with a copy of Vanguard newspaper in the detail. In the 4 pictures posted by the actress, she’s seen lovingly clutching a copy of Vanguard while the husband looks on with pleasure. “The most wonderful thing I decided to do was to share my life and heart with you. We may not have it all together but, together we have it all. A strong marriage rarely has two strong people at the same time. “He’s more myself than I am. “Thank you for being you, even at the most difficult time I will stand by you and I will choose you over again even in your mistakes and imperfections. I can’t love you less for choosing me over others, and making me your queen and number 1. Our love will continue to flourish even when people would want to pull us apart, we will always stand by each other because our love is endless, Happy Anniversary My King,” Chioma Chijioke had posted on her Instagram page. Vanguard Birthdays are meant to be special, memorable and celebrated with as much vigour and splendour as the celebrant could muster, but these days, our screen divas are beginning to add a whole new meaning to it. Now, no actress celebrates her birthday without hitting the photo studio first, to do… June 26, 2016 In "Entertainment" It is only a few days to the end of 2018 as the countdown to the new year has began. However, it is the duty of Celebrity Diary, the social media watchdog to document some of the stories that trended in 2018. So, in this edition of Celebrity Diary we… December 21, 2018 In "Entertainment" After she dominated the Nigerian social media space throughtout the greater part of last year, actress Mercy Aigbe is back in the news again for the wrong reason. The actress since last week has been under attack over  her birthday outfit, which she  shared on her Instagram page. January 5, 2018 In "News"