Wife of the Controller General of the Nigeria Correctional Service NCoS, Hajia Gwamma Ahmed Ja’afaru, has urged female inmates at the Suleja Main Custodial Centre to shun all forms of vices and use their time in the centre to imbibe godly and motherly habits. Jafa’aru gave the charge during the 2019 Christmas visit to custodial centres within the Federal Capital Territory FCT Command of the NCoS where she distributed drugs, food items and female sanitary wares. Public Relations Officer of the Command, Humphrey Chukwuedo who disclosed this on s statement yesterday added that Ja’afaru who was represented by the Chairperson of Nigerian Correctional Officers’ wives Association, FCT Command, Mrs Awele Mustapha Attah also harped on the need to attune their minds to learning and acquiring skills. The chairperson further urged them to use the opportunity to learn vocations which are being taught in the custodial centre like bead making, hairdressing, costume and make up, adding that these would enhance their financial independence upon discharge. She encouraged the inmates to see their being in custody as a period to commune with God and chart a new course devoid of vices. vanguard By Omeiza Ajayi - Abuja Controller General of the Nigeria Correctional Service NCoS, Ja'afaru Ahmed has set up a panel to investigate the conduct of its personnel at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre with a view to ascertaining the authenticity of a report by the International Centre for Investigative Reporting ICIR… October 25, 2019 In "News" The Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire and Immigration Services Board (CDCFIB) has approved the suspension of 3 officers and 6 other ranks of the Nigerian Correctional Service implicated in the alleged internet fraud by an inmate. Mr Francis Enobore, the Public Relation Officer of NCoS disclosed this in statement on Wednesday… November 27, 2019 In "Metro" Launches investigation By Omeiza Ajayi Controller General of the Nigeria Correctional Service NCoS, Ja'afaru Ahmed has dismissed reports that the service planned to arrest an investigative journalist, 'Fisayo Soyombo over his report which unearthed shady practices at the Ikoyi Custodial Centre in Lagos. Service Public Relations Officer, Controller Francis Enobore who… October 22, 2019 In "News"