Gov. Gboyega Oyetola of Osun, on Monday, signed the 2020 budget of N119.5 billion into law, promising that the budget would be fully implemented. The governor signed the budget in his office in Osogbo shortly after it was formally presented to him by the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Mr Timothy Owoeye. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that appropriation bill was passed into law by the Assembly on Dec. 24. Oyetola, who described the size of the budget as the most realistic, said the government would stop at nothing to ensure its full implementation. He said that his administration decided to prune down the size of the budget, having realised the socioeconomic realities and the limited resources available to the state. The governor, who promised to continue to do things that would make life more meaningful, worthwhile and abundant for the people of the state, assured them of better days in 2020 and beyond. He said that the state would do everything possible to bring about the desired development across all the sectors, as captured by the budget. While commending the leadership and members of the Assembly for a job well done, Oyetola promised to maintain the existing level of understanding and cooperation among the three arms of government in the state. Earlier in his remarks, Owoeye, who described the signing of the bill as unique, noted that it was the first time in the history of the state that budget for the following year would be completed before the beginning of the year. He described it as a demonstration of the Oyetola-led administration’s commitment to fiscal transparency, accountability and sustainability. (NAN) VANGUARD The speaker of Osun state House of Assembly, Hon. Timothy Owoeye on Tuesday disclosed that the Assembly would make a law that will bar doctors in public hospital from private practice. August 6, 2019 In "Health" Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, on Tuesday signed the 2020 state appropriation bill of N137, 419,617,116 billion into law. Ikpeazu presented a budget proposal of N136.617 billion to the state House of Assembly on November 18. The budget, which the lawmakers increased by N1.9 billion was signed into law at… December 24, 2019 In "News" Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, the Chief of Staff to Gov. Rauf Aregbesola of Osun, on Friday disclosed that the 19 agencies and bureaus under the Office of the Governor are to jointly spend a sum of N18,645,514,610 in the new year, 2015. January 17, 2015 In "News"