In a move to educate Nigerians on the health safety of its products, the West African Seasoning Company Limited (WASCO), makers of Ajinomoto food seasoning, has stepped up engagement of key stakeholders the medical profession, food science and technology, sectors, women groups, traditional rulers, to discuss the safety of Monosodium Glutamate, MSG, food seasoning. Speaking during the 10th  Annual Symposium/Award ceremony of the Health Writers Association of Nigeria, HEWAN, themed: “Curbing the High Rate of Brain Drain in the Nigerian Health Sector”, WASCO’s Head of Marketing, Mr. Isah Shallangwa explained that almost all seasonings contain MSG. He told the journalists drawn from the print, broadcast and online media platforms that contrary to negative rumours, Ajinomoto  is 100 percent safe for human consumption. Shallangwa assured of the safety of the product had long been scientifically proven and its safety approved by authorised agencies of the United Nations. He said WASCO was committed to bringing out the natural taste in cooking through safe and cost-effective seasonings, urging that it was necessary to dispel any myth or misconception about MSG through the media. “Umami substance is present in most natural foods such as meat, seafood, vegetables, cheese and milk. Glutamate is also abundant in breast milk. Umami seasoning enhances the taste of dishes and is a universal taste. “It is one of the five basic tastes along with sweet, sour, salty and bitter. We have a lot of glutamate in our local foods. Iru, for instance, is umami. When you take Iru, you take a lot of glutamates” he explained. On her part, WASCO’s Corporate Communication Officer, Mrs. Francisca Ikediashi, urged the heath journalists debunk myths and misconceptions about the seasoning and present facts to the public. The HEWAN leadership commended WASCO for it’s support and contribution pledging that the media would continue to provide consumers with factual information about foods and seasonings. “This awareness is a welcome development. A lot of our members have today been sensitised on the safety of your product. Now that the company has partnered with us for awareness creation, we are very happy. It is now our duty to take the information to the public,”  West African Seasoning Company Limited (WASCO), an affiliate of the AJINOMOTO Group; a global food giant and makers of AJI-NO-MOTO seasoning products has reiterated its commitment to healthy living, stating that monosodium glutamate (MSG) is good for consumption. August 2, 2018 In "Business" CONTRARY to speculations stating that monosodium glutamate, MSG, is harmful to health, the West African Seasoning Company Limited, WASCO, has debunked such as unfounded rumour, saying it is 100 per cent safe for consumption. August 14, 2018 In "Health" A group of over 130 medical professionals including scientists weekend dispel rumours surrounding the use of Ajinomoto seasoning for food saying it is safe for consumption even as the Management of the West African Seasoning Company Limited, WASCO, makers of the product also known as Monosodium Glutamate (MSG) took its… July 16, 2019 In "Health"