A Federal High Court in Kano has on Monday dismissed a suit filed by a Kano based lawyer Bulama Bukarti seeking an order of the court compelling the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to investigate the state  Governor Abdullahi Ganduje for allegedly receiving graft from a contractor. The Judge dismissed the case for lack of substantial evidence. Bulama had approached the court seeking an order to ask EFCC to provide report of its forensic investigation analysis on the said video showing Ganduje receiving bribe from an unknown contractor. Justice Egwuatu ruled that “even though where the affidavit deposed to, is not countered, it is deemed admitted, the evidence therein must be cogent and verifiable.” The judge added that “the provisions of Freedom of Information Act 2011, required that information requested must be a public record and in the custody of the instruction of organization so requested from.” Justice Egwuatu dismissed the case on the grounds that the evidence before the court has not shown that the EFCC has the record of the forensic analysis of the bribery video allegations, noting that the report ought to be given to the Kano state House of Assembly ad-hoc committee set up to investigate the matter. It would be recalled that a video clip showing Governor Ganduje allegedly receiving bribe from a contractor went viral ahead of the 2019 general elections.  A Federal High Court in Kano on Monday dismissed a bribery suit against Governor Abdullahi Ganduje for lack of evidence. Kano-based lawyer, Bulama Bukarti, filed the suit, asking the court to mandate the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate Ganduje for allegedly receiving a kickback from a contractor.… December 16, 2019 In "News" Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sued President Muhammadu Buhari over “failure to direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami, SAN, and/or appropriate anti-corruption agencies to investigate allegations of bribery against Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, as contained in the widely circulated… December 9, 2018 In "News" The Kano state Police Command has warned the National Union of Nigerian Students (NUNS) to desist from its plan of staging a protest march on the 29th of October to call on the Kano state Governor Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje to resign to allow for complete investigation into the allegation of… October 17, 2018 In "News"