A sensational finish from a seemingly impossible angle by the Egyptian sent the defending champions through at the top of their group. Mohamed Salah has sent Twitter into a spin after scoring a marvellous second goal for Liverpool in a vital Champions League game against Red Bull Salzburg. The Reds were not guaranteed to progress from the group stage before kickoff and Napoli cantering to a 3-0 halftime lead put more pressure on the Merseysiders. The last team to be eliminated in the group stage as holders were Chelsea in 2012. Salah had missed some presentable chances in the first period of an open game that Salzburg needed to win to advance. It was scoreless at the break, but Naby Keita scored just before the hour mark to ease any concerns Liverpool may have had, but it was Salah’s intervention that secured all three points and set social media ablaze. The Egypt international latched on to a weak header toward his own goalkeeper by Salzburg defender Jerome Onguene and rounded Cican Stankovic before scoring from a seemingly impossible angle with his right foot. Mo Salah should win Nobel Prize for Physics for this Wizard Filth: Rounding goalkeeper, brazenly clips a no-look shot from acute angle with his weaker foot, imparting reverse spin to find corner of the net. Mental arithmetic performed in blink of an eye  pic.twitter.com/YjsXhAHiDO — roger bennett (@rogbennett) December 10, 2019 [Goal.com] Vanguard News Nigeria. European champions, Liverpool, gave up a three-goal lead to Austria’s Salzburg before recovering to win 4-3 in an enthralling Champions League Group E match at Anfield on Wednesday. Mohamed Salah, who scored twice, grabbed the 69th-minute winner for Liverpool after Salzburg, managed by American Jesse Marsch, had stunned Anfield with… October 3, 2019 In "Sports" Jurgen Klopp was in 'competition mood' at Monday's media conference ahead of Liverpool's crunch Champions League clash with Salzburg, taking exception to a translator's response in German. The Reds require a point from Tuesday's trip to Salzburg to guarantee a place in the last 16 of the Champions League, a… December 10, 2019 In "Sports" Sadio Mane joined Steven Gerrard and Mohamed Salah in an exclusive Liverpool goalscoring club after helping the Reds beat Red Bull Salzburg in the Champions League. Mane scored his seventh goal of the season to give Jurgen Klopp’s side an early lead on Wednesday night before Andrew Robertson put Liverpool… October 2, 2019 In "Sports"