The Federal Government has said that the new Country Programme of the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation, UNIDO (2018-2022), would help Nigeria to achieve inclusive and sustainable industrial development. MAN seeks government intervention, support in the Industry(Opens in a new browser tab) Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, stated this during the Partnership Round Table Meeting organized by the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, and the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, in collaboration with the UNIDO in Abuja. Adebayo noted that the new UNIDO -Nigeria Country Programme aligned with the Federal Government’s current economic and industrialization priorities and agenda. He stated: “The Federal Government of Nigeria recognizes UNIDO as a reliable partner which has continued to support the country’s efforts towards achieving inclusive and sustainable industrial development. “The new UNIDO -Nigeria Country Programme, which comprises nine pragmatic areas, is in alignment with the Federal Government’s economic diversification and industrial development agenda. We believe that the full implementation of the new Country Programme will help Nigeria to achieve inclusive and sustainable Industrial Development.” Also speaking during the Partnership Rountable, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba said the Federal Government would support the new five-year Country Partnership Programme of UNIDO. The Minister, who was represented by the Director, International Cooperation Department in the ministry, Mrs Elizabeth Egharevba, noted that partnership with UNIDO would complement government’s economic programmes aimed at diversifying the economy through industrialization. FG expresses commitment to strengthen MSMEs devt to address poverty(Opens in a new browser tab) “We are happy with UNIDO’s technical support to Nigeria towards achieving inclusive and sustainable industrial development. As a government, we will do our best provide the necessary support for UNIDO,” he added. Vanguard The United Nations Industrial Development Organization  (UNIDO) has put the expected Gross Domestic Product, GDP, resulting from the  African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement at about $2.5 trillion. November 26, 2019 In "Business" The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) is set to commence a 4-year programme to drive inclusive and sustainable industrial development in Nigeria, at an estimated cost of $50 million. April 25, 2018 In "Business" The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement will provide a new impetus to the continent’s industrialization agenda through increased intra-African trade. November 26, 2019 In "News"