The management of the Lagos State University, LASU, Ojoo, Lagos has called for caution on the issue of the murder of a final year student of the institution, Miss Favour Dailey-Oladele, by suspected ritualists, urging the students to remain calm and allow security agents to do their job. In a statement on Sunday by the Coordinator, Centre for Information, Press and Public Relations, Mr Ademola Adekoya, he quoted the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, SAN, as saying that he received with great shock the news of the death of the final year student of the Department of Theatre Arts of the university. “The university management hereby commiserates with the parents and other family members of the deceased, staff and students of the department, and the entire university community. The Police have assured that justice will be served in this case as the perpetrators of this heinous crime will be charged to court immediately investigation is concluded,” the statement read. The VC, on behalf of the university management, called for caution on the part of students and requested that they remain calm to allow law enforcement agents to conclude their work. He assured that the university would continue to monitor the case. Prof. Fagbohun also reiterated the commitment of the university management to the security of lives and property on all campuses of the university. According to the police, the deceased was murdered around the 8th of December 2019 at Ikoyi Ile in Ikire, Osun State, by some individuals who have since been arrested. Vanguard Ola Olabanjo, a first class student of the Lagos State University (LASU), has won the Best Bachelor of Science, Computer Science Students’ Projects Award for Tertiary Institutions in Lagos State. Olabanjo was of the Computer Science Department in the institution. Prof. Benjamin Aribisala, Head, Computer Science Department of LASU, made… January 25, 2016 In "News" By Evelyn Usman Fresh facts have emerged on how Favour Daley-Oladele, a final year student of the Lagos State University, LASU Ojoo, who went missing on December 8, 2019, was killed. This followed a startling revelation of how her boyfriend, Adeeko Owolabi, allegedly connived with a self-acclaimed pastor to kill… December 29, 2019 In "Metro" Had he known that he would be murdered in cold blood on Thursday, February 28, 2013 by yet to be identified gunmen, he wouldn’t have come to school in his bid to meet up the 70 per cent compulsory class attendance of his course, Banking Lending & Credit Administration (BSS… March 7, 2013 In "Education"