As part of efforts to continue to open new doors for African women and African American women’s leadership advancement as well as ensure inclusion of women in leadership positions in Africa, the  African Women in Leadership Organisation, AWLO, has concluded plans to hold the  12th Annual African Women in Leadership Conference, AWLC, in April between 2 and 5, 2020 in Sierra Leone. In a press statement, Founder, AWLO, Dr. Elisha Attai, disclosed that, the First Lady of Sierra Leone, Mrs. Fatima Bio will be among other dignitaries that will be hosting the event. With the theme, Women: Peace-Building and Environment, it is expected to create capacity building and opportunities to engage women as primary stakeholders in the advancement of women’s leadership. No deaths, 12 rescued after Sierra Leone building collapse(Opens in a new browser tab) Since incpetion, the event with more than a decade-long history of impact has been holding the reins of women’s leadership from different communities to address issues bothering on women in leadership, she said. According to him, “Every year, stakeholders build workforces to deliver gender parity, as a result of AWLC’s impact in private sector, public sector, and civil society engagement. While also building bridges for dialogue between women and stakeholders, AWLC creates capacity building opportunities to engage women as primary stakeholders.in the advancement of women’s leadership. “After a highly engaging 2019 African Women in Leadership Conference at Kigali Rwanda marked by the support of the Government of Rwanda, Sierra Leone is set to host the 12th edition of the African Women in Leadership Conference. The aim is to confer and galvanize action towards creating the rubric for peace-building, while maximizing the environment to advance women’s potential. “AWLO welcomes international delegates of all genders, and all works of life, from all parts of the world to African Women in Leadership Conference Sierra Leone 2020. “AWLC Sierra Leone 2020 shall call for paper presentations from Academics, Researchers, Corporations, NGOs and Public entities. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact AWLO engages in work to support the UN Women’s mission and promote corporate Sustainability through the ten Principles. “Conference Sessions will highlight concerns on environment, and the impact of its exploitation on women, and the assets that are women in playing pivotal roles in peace building. It assesses the potential impacts of multi-sectoral collaborations in mapping, negotiating and navigating the future of Women already facing the threats of environmental and climate change and multiple forms of violence, globally. ‘I consider it a privilege to stir a movement, calling on people of all genders to work in togetherness for changing the narrative of gender relations and social balance”, he said. Economic ties: Sierra Leone wants more Nigerian investment(Opens in a new browser tab) Her words, “To empower the woman is to empower her immediate and larger society for the greater good”. “Pushing the envelope for women liberation in corporate, social and political engagements as well as their stability and collective progress is the way to go at this time”, “First Lady of Sierra Leone, Mrs. Fatima Bio, said. Vanguard No fewer than 500 wom-en from across the African continent, including politicians, first ladies, heads of government agencies and diplomats, as well as stakeholders comprising development partners, religious and civil society organisations, women associations and youth groups, are expected to gather next month in Rwanda for the 2019 edition of… April 4, 2019 In "Woman's Own" Elisha Attai is a Media, Communications and Public Relations Practitioner and Publisher.A strong advocate for the development and advancement of the African woman, he is the Founder of the African Women in Leadership Organisation (AWLO) and the initiator/convener of the famed African Women in Leadership Conference (AWLC), a global movement… August 18, 2018 In "News" For the 9th time from inception, African Women in Leadership Organisation (AWLO) will induct new members during their ‘2017 Induction Dinner’ that is scheduled to hold on December 15, 2017 at Ibom Hotel & Golf Resort, Akwa Ibom State with a special literacy awareness campaign for the year tagged: “#1Mother1Child… November 11, 2017 In "News"