French President, Emmanuel Macron, said on Saturday his country’s troops have killed 33 militants in an operation in Mali. Mr. Macron made the announcement on a visit to Ivory Coast, where he reiterated France’s commitment to fighting jihadists in the region. The development comes weeks after 13 French troops died in a helicopter collision in Mali in the biggest single-day loss of life for its military since the 1980s. Thousands of French troops have been deployed in Mali since 2013. Its involvement came after Islamist militants overran parts of the north. With the help of France, Mali’s army has recaptured the territory, but insecurity continues and violence has spread to neighbouring countries. Some 4,500 French troops serve as part of Operation Barkhane in support of the forces of Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Burkina Faso, and Chad. Mr. Macron said the “terrorists” were killed in an operation on Saturday in Mali’s Mopti region. “This morning, thanks to engagement by our soldiers and the Barkhane forces, we were able to neutralise 33 terrorists, take one prisoner and free two Malian gendarmes who had been held hostage,” he said. France’s army command said the operation took place overnight near the Mauritanian border. Mr. Macron made the announcement in a speech in Ivory Coast, where he has been celebrating an early Christmas with French troops. (BBC).  Vanguard French President Emmanuel Macron and Niger President Mahamadou Issoufou agreed on Thursday to postpone to early 2020 a meeting of Sahel country leaders due to take place in France later this month, the French presidency said. The decision to postpone the event, which was to address France’s military presence in… December 12, 2019 In "Foreign" President Emmanuel Macron will visit French troops in Africa on Friday, a source close to the new leader said on Tuesday. May 16, 2017 In "News" Hundreds of people gathered in Paris on Monday to honour 13 soldiers killed while battling jihadist insurgents in Mali, ahead of a national ceremony to mourn a disaster that has prompted soul-searching over the costs of the six-year campaign in West Africa. Sporadic applause punctuated sombre silence as a motorcade… December 3, 2019 In "News"