Financial Technology Company, Cellulant, said it has re-launched its payment, agent and mobile banking app, Tingg, to an all-in-one, multi-functional consumer app. The new Tingg, according to the company, is set to include a wide array of payment, commerce, and financial services in a single platform that will change the way customers interact with digital payment services across Africa. China, US to resume high-level trade talks in October(Opens in a new browser tab) The company said that Tingg is the solution to the fragmentation in the African digital payments space, particularly in cross-border payments. It stated, “As a platform that supports payments, financial services and commerce at a local level, Tingg seeks to eliminate boundaries across channels and geographies. The all-in-one app will offer an integrated and efficient user experience adapted to local contexts, making it easier for customers and businesses to access digital financial services send and accept payments conveniently. “In Nigeria, with over 25,000 agents spread across 24 states, Tingg has the simple promise of bringing financial services closer to your doorstep.” ‘Outreach, Financials and Services make us beat Competitors’(Opens in a new browser tab) CMO Cellulant Nigeria, Lanre Adelanwa said, “It has always been part of our vision to unite Africa through payment, and we are excited as we start this new journey. Our experience with driving financial inclusion in the rural areas has equipped us to scale our proposition of taking not just financial services but commerce as well to everyone across the country through a single platform. Vanguard Cellulant, Africa’s digital payments service provider has proven that financial technology is for everyone, through its Agrikore & Tingg blockchain based platform.  The smart digital financial service provider is transforming financial services provided to the African smallholder farmers and retailers in open markets across Africa. January 4, 2019 In "Business" The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Mr Patrick Akinwuntan has reaffirmed that his mandate in Nigeria is to grow the Ecobank brand by delivering it as a brand of choice. The bank Managing Director stated that Ecobank service will be available and within the reach of every Nigerian either in their… September 24, 2018 In "News" Lagos - The Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Mr Patrick Akinwuntan has reaffirmed that his mandate in Nigeria is to grow the Ecobank brand by delivering it as a brand of choice. September 22, 2018 In "Business"