Presidency has again adopted the theory of silence over allegations seeking for clarifications in the Villa. No good governance without press freedom — Saraki(Opens in a new browser tab) Not quite long ago, the first lady, Mrs Aisha Buhari, venomously accused the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Mr Garba Shehu of disloyalty to the number one citizen of the country. She averred that she can no longer trust Shehu having defamed her office and played to the tune of cabals in the Villa. Shuhu’s responsibility according to Aisha is to protect the interest of Mr President and his family but he derailed from his duty to speaking for the cabals in the Villa. However, the above allegation has since morning been seeking for response from Presidency, but rather commenting on that, Presidency through the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, tried to divert Nigerians attention to a rather microcosm issue. BREAKING: Sowore, Bakare slam N1bn suit against DSS DG(Opens in a new browser tab) Reacting to a publication made by PUNCH that it would no longer address Buhari as ‘President but General Buhari’ until his administration purges itself off dictatorial operation, Adesina in a statement released on Wednesday argued that calling President Buhari ‘General’ is a testament that press freedom and freedom of speech are high guaranteed in the country. His words ‘ANOTHER TESTIMONY TO PRESS FREEDOM IN NIGERIA, BY PRESIDENCY “A newspaper says it will henceforth address President Muhammadu Buhari by his military rank of Major General. Nothing untoward in it. It is a rank the President attained by dint of hard work before he retired from the Nigerian Army. And today, constitutionally, he’s also Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. All over the world, just as in our country, a large number of retired military officers are now democrats. It does not make those who didn’t pass through military service better democrats than them. Buhari vows to win fight against corruption(Opens in a new browser tab) Rather than being pejorative, addressing President Buhari by his military rank is another testimony to free speech and freedom of the press, which this administration (or regime, if anyone prefers: it’s a matter of semantics) has pledged to uphold and preserve.”  Vanguard THE presidency has said that official portfolio was yet to be assigned to Aisha, the wife of president Mohmmadu Buhari, overruling what hitherto was known as “First Lady’s office”. Apparently renaming it “Office of the Wife of the President”, the presidency however stated that Mrs. Buhari would, for now, be… August 22, 2015 In "News" The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu has described as sheer mischief, the attribution to President Muhammadu Buhari, of the expulsion from the Villa of the Punch reporter, Mr. Olalekan Adetayo. April 25, 2017 In "News" The Presidency has said that Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State acted so infantile by linking President Buhari's wife, Aisha to US Congressman William Jefferson's bribery scandal for which the American lawmaker was convicted in 2009. June 21, 2016 In "News"