The Sokoto Zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Monday stated it is currently investigating a total sum of N200 billion in Zamfara State in relation to the former-governor, Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari’s administration. Sokoto Zonal Head of the EFCC, Abdullahi Lawal revealed this as the commission handed over Fifty Three (53) Tricycles (Keke Napep) recovered from a contractor to the Zamfara State government. “[EFCC] is currently investigating over 60 cases from Zamfara state in relation to the past administration. These include cases against individuals, public and private organizations as well as government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). The total sum involved is over 200 billion Naira.  Several bank accounts connected to fraudulent activities have been frozen by the Commission”, Lawal said. According to a press statement by the Commission’s  Head, Media & Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, Lawal also said the fear of EFCC’s investigation has compelled several contractors,  who collected billions of naira from Zamfara state but failed to deliver, to return to site. The recovered Tricycles was sequel to investigation on a contract that was initially awarded to Kynco and Wadatau at a total cost of N1.2 billion for the supply of 1000 Tricycles.  Investigation revealed that only 947 units were supplied before the expiration of the tenure of the immediate past administration in Zamfara state. In his response, the Secretary to the Zamfara State Government who received the 53 recovered Tricycles on behalf of Zamfara state government, Alhaji Bala Bello Maru commended the Commission for its achievements so far in the zone. He assured the Commission of the state government’s readiness to give necessary support to it at all times. “We will provide the list of those going to benefit from these Tricycles and as well invite EFCC to come and witness the distribution”,  he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Sokoto Zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Monday, handed over Fifty Three (53) Tricycles (Keke Napep) recovered from a contractor to the Zamfara State government. The recovery of the Tricycles was sequel to investigation on a contract that was initially awarded to Kynco and… December 16, 2019 In "Metro" Pro-democracy and good governance group, Concerned Nigerians, has urged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, to investigate and, if found culprit, freeze all accounts associated with the Zamfara state Governor, Abdul'aziz Abubakar Yari just like it did when it was investigating a corruption allegation against the Ekiti state Governor,… July 1, 2017 In "News" The governorship candidate of All Progressives Grand Alliance, APGA, in Zamfara State, Alhaji  Sani  Shinkafi, has urged the acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, to investigate  the immediate past government of  Zamfara State, over alleged  misappropriation of N251 billion belonging to the state. July 5, 2019 In "News"