  The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nomination of Muhammad Nami and 13 others as Executive Chairman and board members of the Federal Inland Revenue Services (FIRS). The confirmation of followed a report of the Committee on Finance and consideration of same at the Senate Committee of the Whole. President Muhammadu Buhari had forwarded the list of the nominees to the Senate for confirmation as Chairman and Board Members of FIRS. Also confirmed by the Senate were James Yakwen Ayuba (North-Central), Ado Danjuma (North-West), Adam Mohammed (North-East), Ikeme Osakwe (South-East), Adewale Ogunyomade (South-West), and Ehile Adetola Aibangbee (South-South). Also confirmed were representatives of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) as board members of the service. They are Ladidi Mohammed, Office of Attorney-General of the Federation; Godwin Emefiele, Central Bank of Nigeria; (CBN), Fatima Hayatu, Ministry of Finance; Maagbe Adaa, Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission; Umar Ajiya, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation(NNPC); DCG Isah, Nigeria Customs Service and Registrar-General, Corporate Affairs Commission. The Senate also confirmed Mr Edward Lametek Adamu as Chairman of the Asset Management Corporation (AMCON).  (NAN)  Vanguard   *** Refers Name to Committee By Henry Umoru The Senate on Wednesday began the Confirmation process of  Mohammad Mamman  Nami as the Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS. Also to be screened before with Wednesday are other representatives from the zones and Ministries, Departments, Agencies, MDAs of government. The Senate… December 11, 2019 In "News" ABUJA- THE Senate, Wednesday confirmed the appointment of Dr. Muhammed  Isah from Jigawa State representing the North West zone as chairman of the Code of Conduct Bureau, CCB. October 17, 2018 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday inaugurated the North East Development Commission, NEDC Board for rebuilding of the zone ravaged by Boko Haram insurgency. May 8, 2019 In "News"