BtoB Events headed by MD Jamie Hill held the 2019 edition of Beauty West Africa Exhibition and Conference. The event held at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos from 20th to 22nd November 2019. BtoB Events joined forces with Compass Global Business Services to organise the conference with the local community in mind, having made an impressive impact in Nigeria’s Beauty Sector via its international exhibition platform – Beauty West Africa, which mobilized over 100 companies into Nigeria from across the World. In a chat with People n Places, Jamie Hill emphasised the importance of collaborating with key stakeholders in Nigeria’s business sphere to showcase the Nigerian opportunity. On her part, Compass CEO, and conference partner, Tokunbo Chiedu highlighted her firm’s objective of going into the partnership “Our job is to promote the brand Nigeria. We partnered with BtoB Events with the aim of developing the sector and working with key stakeholders within the domestic market. We also aim to foster linkages between Nigerian and international brands on the Beauty West Africa Exhibition platform.” VANGUARD By Juliet Ebirim The annual Beauty West Africa Exhibition and Conference is scheduled to take place at the Landmark Events Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos from 20th - 22nd November 2019 in Lagos. The event is organised by BtoB Events which is headed by MD Jamie Hill, a former Divisional Director… June 26, 2019 In "News" Considering the economic value of  beauty industry to a growing economy like Nigeria with huge employment opportunities, a Nigerian based  consultancy, Compass Global Service has joined forces with Dubai/UK based international exhibition organisers, B to B Events to organise a three day annual beauty West African exhibition and conference next… October 26, 2018 In "Business" WEST Africa Automotive Show, WAAS, a new international trade exhibition, is set to bring the region’s automotive parts industry together under one roof come next month. According to WAAS, “for three days, an estimated 100 exhibitors from Nigeria and other countries will be gathering together to network, forge new business… September 20, 2019 In "News"