Months after the Federal government banned the distribution and production of Codeine based cough syrups in the country, May & Baker Plc has said that the ban caused it to lose N700 million in annual income as well as loss of raw materials and finished products worth over N350 million. Genetically engineered immune cells fight off deadly virus(Opens in a new browser tab) Briefing journalists in Lagos, weekend, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Nnamdi Okafor said most pharmaceutical manufacturers are contending not only with the loss of revenue but funds already invested in finished and raw materials. Okafor who described 2019 as a challenging year, urged the Federal government to help pharmaceutical companies to pay for the drugs and then, sell them under strict monitoring and control.  “For the raw materials, we want to be allowed to convert them, if government also wants to take them over and monitor the usage that is also fine.  That will be best for us.” FG asked to revert to 20% tariff for raw materials for battery manufacturing companies(Opens in a new browser tab) Okafor said currently the company is undergoing a major product portfolio restructuring.  “We were compelled in the last two years to discontinue the production of some of our top cash cow brands as a result of age and change in national treatment protocols and policies. “Some of the products involved are our Sulpha-based ranges, the Nivaquines and 221 brands. These products were responsible for over N1.2 billion of our annual revenue in 2017.” Speaking on local vaccine production, Okafor who hinted that their joint venture company, Biovaccines Nigeria Limited was running fully as an independent company said it is currently perfecting plans to actualize vaccine production. He recalled that Nigeria spends close to N8 billion every year to import vaccines into the country. Expressing hope that the company would soon actualise the national dream of local production, he said the company would save lives of Nigerians needlessly loss during outbreaks. “When we start manufacturing locally, we are not going to save N8 billion because the government will still have to pay but there are some other services around the current procurement process and logistics for bringing in vaccines that the government is paying. “For instance, the government pays 6 percent to UNICEF to bring in vaccines into Nigeria, the government spends a lot of money bringing in the vaccines like clearing it at the port etc, that will be substantial savings. There are other technical things around vaccines, by the time Nigeria has a capacity to handle all that, the cost of handling them will be saved.  “But above all, Nigeria is going to save lives because sometimes, when you have an epidemic, sometimes the response time is slow if you have to bring in the vaccines from outside. Obasanjo lauds A’ibom food Sufficiency Initiative(Opens in a new browser tab) “By the time we have these vaccines produced here, Nigerians will no longer be dying needlessly. African specified antigens, like Ebola, Lassa fever, some of those vaccines are not a priority for western countries.   With capacity for vaccines we will be able to tackle epidemics and emergency activities.” Vanguard May & Baker Nigeria Plc on Friday says the pharmaceutical sector needs a bail out of N500 billion to play actively in African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement. Mr Nnamdi Okafor, Managing Director, made the remark at end of the company’s yearly media parley in Lagos. He suggested that… December 14, 2019 In "Health" The Federal Ministry of Health has recalled 2.4 million bottles of  cough syrup containing codeine after a recent audit of the substance carried out by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). July 29, 2018 In "News" Like moths to the flame, they flock in droves to satiate their uncontrollable self-destructive habit of codeine cough syrup consumption. Attracted by the overpowering lure of the sweet tasting elixir, hordes of Nigerians—school children, young adults, fully grown men and women and other habitual consumers—go all out to live out… May 5, 2018 In "Health"