A new game, called PREWIN, kicks off in January to add to the numerous game apps donning the Nigerian mobile game space. WhatsApp to stop working on millions of phones by end of December The beauty of this one is that it can be played on WhatsApp, Web and several other mobile platforms. Introducing the game, MD/CEO of PREWIN, Mr. Adekunle Akindeji, said the game is a trivia platform that educates and rewards players on different subject areas. According to him, the game is divided into several knowledge categories such as sports, fashion, politics, and entertainment among others which a player can choose from. He said players are also rewarded based on their ability to answer correctly at least eight of 10 questions within a specified period of time in their category of choice. Akindeji said: “PREWIN knowledge games were designed to give people the opportunity to test their knowledge and get rewarded while carrying out their daily activities on WhatsApp. He said: “People spend a lot of time on WhatsApp either connecting with friends, families, business partners or colleagues. With time being such an intangible resource, we came up with the idea of the games for people to get educated and rewarded in this knowledge based economy”. Seahawks defender Woods given four-game doping ban He however added that the games are only allowed for players that have attained 18 years of age. Vanguard To give Nigerians an opportunity to meet their aspirations with little risk, an online consumer sales promotion platform called Ekojara game, was recently unveiled in Lagos. October 12, 2018 In "News" To give Nigerians an opportunity to meet their aspirations with little risk, an online consumer sales promotion platform called Ekojara game, was recently unveiled in Lagos. October 10, 2018 In "Technology" The penetration of mobile instant messaging platforms such as Whatsapp, Black Berry Messenger (BBM), Palmchat, 2go, among others in Nigeria’s social media ecosystem has no doubt increased appreciably. September 21, 2015 In "Technology"