Underfunding, inadequate personnel, lack of essential modern medical equipment and other infrastructural needs, have been identified as the major handicaps bedevilling Imo State Government-owned hospitals. The Chairman of Imo State Hospital Management Board, Dr. Douglas Acholonu, made this known after inspecting some of the medical outfits yesterday. At the time of going to press, the inspection team had visited Awo-Omamma General Hospital, Oru East local council area, Amaifeke Health Centre, Orlu local government area and Nwaorieubi General Hospital in Mbaitoli Local Government Areas. While saying that “the essence of the inspection was to identify the facilities in bad condition and find ways to revamping them for optimal function and use”, Dr. Acholonu however, reiterated the commitment of Governor Emeka Ihedioha to improving the health sector and ensuring service delivery in the state. Making particular reference to Amaifeke General Hospital, Acholonu expressed regret that “it was wantonly closed down since 2012, by the Rochas  Okorocha administration and converted to a glorified health centre.” Answering a question, Dr Acholonu said that “the state of the hospitals, which Governor Ihedioha inherited, does not give anybody cause to smile”. He charged the Medical Directors to continue cooperating with their host communities while anticipating government intervention as soon as possible. Speaking earlier, the Chief Medical Officer in charge of Awo-Omamma General Hospital, Dr. Felix Amadi, briefed the team on the state of affairs in the hospital, which he said bordered mainly on understaffing, erratic power supply and inadequacy of medical equipment. Dr Amadi however, commended the Awo-Omamma community for their continued support in the day to day running of the hospital, having assisted in the renovation of the Antenatal and Maternity Ward of the hospital. He disclosed that Awo-Omamma women in Diaspora would be handing over yet another completed and equipped ward to the hospital management soon. Vanguard News Nigeria. Mbaitoli is dying and Ihedioha is staring at the clouds.  Mbaitoli receives 200 million monthly from Abuja. The poor folks in Orodo won’t ordinarily ask questions. But the most important roads in Mbaitoli are crumbling.  And it’s taking a  hard toll on their miserable lives. October 26, 2019 In "Frank & Fair" The Imo State Government has abolished "user-fees" at all government hospitals following the United States Government's pledge to provide antiretroviral drugs for the 43,000 persons living with HIV in Imo State lacking access to treatment. December 11, 2019 In "News" Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo State, yesterday, reassured the people of the state that his “administration will invest in qualitative education at all levels.” August 2, 2019 In "News"