IT is obvious that a lot of people need help. Are we helping other people? If we want God to help us then we must be ready to be helpful to others. This will give us license to receive help from God. When we do not help then it will be difficult to receive help from God. EFCC challenges ex-AGF Adoke on Book Claims We must be thinking at all times how a person(s) can rise up or how many people can we lift up with what we have? You may not have money but with prayers, encouragement and connections these can be used to help people rise to stardom. I know that whatever I give to a person as help, plays a positive role in that person’s life. It is not about giving money to people as help but effort or impact made to see that people rise or change their lives for better. Everybody cannot rise up at the same time, some will rise and some will not. It is not about giving material things to people alone. What I mean is that when you are in a position to help people to rise how many of your brothers, sisters, friends, neighbours and even those you do not know did you help? There is need to think seriously about it. Sometimes when we do not receive from God, it is because all our concern is for God to lift us up. The word of God, Deuteronomy 28 indicates how the world is being operated i.e. there are blessings for obedience and curses for disobedience e.g. verses 1 and 2 “…all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you because you obey the voice of the Lord your God” verse 15 “…if you do not obey the voice of the Lord your God, to observe carefully…that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you”. Why the blessings or prayers? They are meant that if you obey and practise God’s instruction it shall be well with you but if you do not the result is curses. Therefore how many people have you helped to progress? Imagine a widow with four children was feeding her family from the remnants of food she collected from cafeteria she was working. Whenever she brings the remnant home and feeds her children she would throw away the left over. On a particular day she inquired from other co-tenants if they would be interested in eating the remnant food she was always bringing home? Susprisingly many of the young guys in the house opted for the food. Eventually she became supplier of food after explaining to them what she was doing for a living. Several years later, one of the guys became wealthy after his return from the U.S. and decided to search for this woman and found her. He blessed this woman with huge amount of money and her life changed as she started selling ladies’ wears. It is my fervent prayer that God in His infinite mercy will render help for us in all our endeavours in the name of Jesus. Amen. Do not think that until you have enough that you can render help. Help the have-not with the little you have. It is not financial help that necessary. Also material things, word of advice are necessary and important. All kinds of help are very important and people should have it in their minds. Some people think when they have money they will render help, but when they get the money they do not help. Some people think that all they possess should be theirs alone without sharing with others. So they find it difficult to part away with their possession willingly. These people are the ones always crying to God for help. Among Christians, help is an important thing and it plays a vital role in their lives. This is what Jesus came to do in the world and nothing else. He came to help people of the world so that we can have enough space to live in his Father’s mansion. He saw that people were heading for destruction, surrendered himself and suffered because He wanted to help us. He pitied the blind, lames, wvahidows, deaf, people that were hungry etc and proffered solutions to their problems. Jesus was a helper to many people. Therefore if we need help from Him we should help people the way Jesus did. In Matthew 5:1-11 Jesus said: “Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven…” The question is how many people have you helped to take from their present situation Jesus further emphasised the need to render help in Matthew 5:25-46. Student jailed six months for N40,000 theft Brethren it is imperative for people to comprehend the principle of help which makes prayers to be answered. Do not feel reluctant to render help. Do not limit your help to your family and friends alone extend it to people you do not know. It is the spirit of love that bring about the mind to render help. Therefore let rendering of help especially to the needies be your watchword. Vanguard It is obvious that a lot of people need help. Are we helping other people? If we want God to help us then we must be ready to help others. This will give us license to receive help from God. When we do not do help others, it will be… February 24, 2019 In "Worship" It is obvious that a lot of people need help. Are we helping people? If we want God to help us, we must be ready to help others. This will give us license to receive help from God. When we do not do it, it will be difficult to receive… August 13, 2017 In "Worship" WHAT is the meaning of help? Help can be viewed from several perspectives. For instance help could be viewed when a person is lifted up from falling down or to deliver a person that is about to be killed or to take care of those that are sick or to… March 4, 2018 In "Worship"