FilmOne Entertainment has announced the launch of the first-ever international capital fund created specially for investment in a slate of Nigerian films. Core investors in the fund are Huahua Media, a Chinese company known for investing in Godzilla: King of the Monsters, Transformers: The Last Knight and Star Trek Beyond, as well as AY’s next movie, 30 Days in China, and Empire Entertainment (South Africa), a leading African distributor representing major Hollywood studios and a host of leading independent studios and producers. Most actors don’t know what it entails becoming a Celebrity – Emeka Rollas Both companies will assist in identifying the films with the most potential for theatrical release and box office success in global markets. On hand to witness signing of the historic agreement by executives of Huahua and FilmOne was Mr. Chu Maoming, Consul General, People’s Republic of China and Mrs. Uju Emagha, Zonal Coordinator, National Film and Videos Censors Board, representing the Executive Director, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas. Mr. Kefei Wang, CEO, Huahua Media; Mr Johnny Fu Cong, Huahua Media; Mr. Kene Okwuosa, Co-Founder, FilmOne; Mr. Moses Babatope, Co-Founder, FilmOne; and Mr. Chinaza Onuzo, Director, FilmOne, all participated. Stay away from N2.1trn pension fund ― PDP warns Buhari, APC Consul General Mr. Chu welcomed the new development. “This is the very first film fund between Chinese and African partners, signalling a growing interest in Nollywood by China and the international film community. We welcome this partnership between Chinese and African companies, as they seek to increase the number of premium Nollywood films being made, by providing filmmakers with bigger budgets and technical advice to improve the quality of their films,” he said. Vanguard Nigerian comedian, actor, and film producer, Ayodeji Richard Makun, a.k.a AY has bagged a deal with the Huawen Movie group in China, to collaborate on the making of his next project, ‘30 Days.’ This would be the first deal championed by AY in collaboration with Chinese film industry and Nigerian… November 22, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nollywood acclaimed blockbuster movie, “The Wedding Party 2-Destination Dubai (WP2)’’ production, cost N300 million, excluding publicity, says producer. January 31, 2018 In "Entertainment" The CEO of EbonyLife TV, Mo Abudu and The Elfike Film Collective hosted Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka and former Lagos State First Lady, Abimbola Fashola, to a private screening of “The Wedding Party.” January 14, 2017 In "Entertainment"