The Senate on Tuesday summoned the Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola to appear before its committees on Interior, Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters to explain the reason for the recently introduced free visa entry policy. Also summoned by the Senate is the Comptroller – General of Nigerian Immigration Service ( NIC) Mohammad Babandede Resolutions of the Senate was sequel to a motion moved to by Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi, All Progressives Congress, APC, Ekiti North. Adetunmbi had in the motion raised through orders 42 and 52 of the Senate Standing Rules, drew the attention of the Senate to the policy which according to him, was in furtherance of Africa Free Trade agreement signed in July this year by President Muhamnadu Buhari. The agreement like other treaties before it, he added, were not forwarded to the National Assembly for domestication through required bills to that effect from the executive. The Senate consequently resolved that the Minister of Interior and the Immigration boss should appear before its committees on Interior, Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters for detailed explanations on the policy. Details later… Vanguard News Nigeria. The Comptroller General, Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammed Babandede, on Friday said the visa on arrival for holders of passports of African countries from January 2020 was to accelerate African Integration. Babandede, who disclosed this in a statement by Mr. Sunday James, the service Public Relations Officer, in Abuja said… December 13, 2019 In "News" The Comptroller General (CGI) of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) Mr Muhammad Babandede says the Federal Government plans to introduce a new visa regime to boost the economy. December 8, 2019 In "News" The Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Muhammad Babandede, said on Saturday night the Federal Government plans to introduce a new visa regime to boost the economy. Babandede stated this at the 2019 dinner and award night organised by the service in Abuja. He added that the new visa… December 8, 2019 In "News"