Estonia’s opposition called for interior minister Mart Helme to resign on Tuesday after he labelled Finland’s new prime minister a “shop girl”. Helme said on Sunday that the new Finnish government was trying to destroy its own country, comments that opposition leader Kaja Kallas said were humiliating to Estonia. Estonia’s president has already apologised to Finland, whose new leader 34-year-old Sanna Marin became the world’s youngest prime minister last week. Veteran Helme is leader and founder of the far-right Conservative People’s Party (EKRE), which joined the governing coalition after winning almost 18 percent of the vote in an election earlier this year. “Mart Helme has repeatedly injured the reputation of the Estonian state, if we let him go on as minister, he’ll be able to humiliate Estonia even further,” said Kallas. The Reform Party leader added that her call for him to quit was supported by other opposition parties and even a lawmaker in the governing coalition. Helme had told a radio interviewer that he doubted Marin and her government were capable of running Finland, riffing on Lenin’s maxim that a cook should be able to run a country. “Now we see that a shop girl has become a prime minister and some other street activists and uneducated people have also become members of the government,” said Helme. He went on to describe the new centre-left government as an act of “historic revenge by the Reds… desperately trying to destroy the Finnish state, turn Finland into some sort of ‘Euro-province'”. VANGUARD Estonia's president met Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin here Thursday for talks on trade and global relations, during the first such Russian visit in eight years. April 18, 2019 In "Foreign" Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen said opposition leaders Kem Sokha and Sam Rainsy would have been killed if he had known they were calling on supporters to “prepare for a new government” during post-election protests in 2013. November 23, 2017 In "News" India’s ruling party leader threatens to chop off hands of Modi’s critics November 21, 2017 In "News"