Nigerian-American singer and songwriter, Promise Ilebor  popularly known as KINGP of the Bugatii Recording Group (BRG) is currently the champion of Itunes with his Banga,  featuring rapper Zlatan, Music kept me away from trouble – Hify Doozy(Opens in a new browser tab) While the audio has been  anthem on the lips of Nigerians and many music lovers, the video, which was dropped about 4 weeks ago has gained over 500k views, making it one of the most viewed in the past weeks. Ilebor, a US-based Nigerian singer has been in the music industry for a while and has registered his name as not just a hit maker but a consistent entertainer. His latest duet with Zlatan is a proof that the Ilebor has finally found his feet in the music industry and is taking his music career to a whole new level. Speaking on the success of his new song,  Ilebor said he was glad that his hard work and team work with his crew is yielding results. He explained his decision to feature Zlatan on the song as a genius move, adding that BRG will continue to work with some of the best music acts in the country to its advantage. Burna Boy’s ‘Dangote’ and the impact of music on society(Opens in a new browser tab) He promised to drop another song in the second week of the New Year as he urged his fans to keep their support and love for his music going. Vanguard Ayo Onikoyi After a brief hiatus, Nigerian-American singer and founder of Bugatti Recording Group (BRG), Ilebor Promise, popularly known as KINGP has revealed why he featured Zlatan in his new song. ALSO READ: Davido, Chioma's most anticipated baby arrives This time, the US-based songwriter and singer with multiple hit songs… October 20, 2019 In "Entertainment" Zlatan is set to headline his first concert in Lagos themed Zlatan Live at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island Lagos on the 18th of December 2019 and ticket is already on sale on Nairabox. This is going to be Zlatan’s first official concert as a headliner… October 19, 2019 In "Entertainment" 2018 was unarguably an amazing year for the Nigerian music industry. With the release of credible hit songs from 2Baba, Davido, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Falz, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Duncan Mighty, Yemi Alade, Victor AD, Barry Jhay, Erriga, Teniola, Flavour, Reekado Banks, Skibi, Mayorkun, Dremo, Olamide, Chinko Ekun, Zlatan… January 12, 2019 In "Music"