Media Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Mr. Ikechukwu Eze, Tuesday, said a security post near the ex-president’s home in Otuoke was attacked by gunmen He said in a statement: “A security post stationed near the Otuoke residence of former President Dr. Goodluck Ebele  Jonathan in Bayelsa State was attacked by unknown gunmen early Tuesday morning. “The hoodlums who came in about five engine boats stormed the security post located about 100 metres away from former President Jonathan’s residence in his hometown Otuoke by 1:30 am on Tuesday and attempted to take away a  gunboat belonging to the military stationed at the creek beside the residence. They were however resisted by gallant soldiers who engaged them in a firefight. “The gunmen who couldn’t stand the firepower of the military were forced to beat a retreat. One soldier, unfortunately, lost his life in the fight while another was injured. The injured soldier who is currently receiving treatment at a medical facility in Yenagoa is in a stable state. ” The former President who was not in Otuoke at the time of the attack, however, returned to his village early this morning to assess the situation. “Dr. Jonathan promptly condemned the attack and reassured his people that there was no cause for alarm. The former President has also condoled with the  family of the deceased soldier, the military and has urged the concerned security authorities to swing into action and bring the culprits to book.” vanguard Chief Inengite Nitabai, the family head and foster father of former President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, was abducted by seven gunmen yesterday in Otuoke, Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. February 18, 2016 In "News" The dead body of former President Goodluck Jonathan’s nephew was found floating along a creek in Otuoke yesterday, according to witnesses. The deceased, Mr. Samuel Oki, was 35 years old and was abducted along with Mr. Jonathan’s foster father Inegite Jonathan on Wednesday. February 20, 2016 In "News" The peace of Otuoke in Ogbia local government area of Bayelsa State was violated in the early hours of today (Wednesday) by gunmen who abducted a prominent chief of the community and foster father of former President Goodluck Jonathan. February 17, 2016 In "News"