Former Aviation Minister, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode has published a picture showing the convener of Concerned Nigerians, Prince Deji Adeyanju, receiving treatment in a Dubai hospital. I am not Yoruba, says Fani Kayode The picture which was obtained by Vanguard on Thursday, has the image of the former Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Mr. Timi Frank, looking after Deji. Recall that Deji was attacked on Monday by allegedly 150-strong youths shouting that were chanting “sai Baba”. His attackers were believed to be pro-Buhari’s working for the government. They attacked Deji and other protesters while trying to submit a petition to the National Human Rights Commission on the detention of #RevolutionNow convener, Omoyele Sowore and others believed to be detained unconstitutionally. However, expressing his concern, Fani-Kayode opined: “Prince Deji Adeyanju has been admitted into hospital in Dubai and is slowly recovering from the injuries he sustained after he was attacked in Abuja by a crowd of Buhari-loving almajiris. “Comrade Timi Frank, another great and courageous warrior and soldier of democracy is with him. BREAKING: DSS releases Dasuki from detention “Hang in there my dear aburo Deji and know that we love you and are very proud of you. They beat you in the streets of Abuja and boasted about it but the following day they were forced to release your friend Sowore and my friend Dasuki. We have won and we shall continue to win. (Femi Fani-Kayode)”.  Vanguard The convener of Concerned Nigerians, and human rights activist, Prince Deji Adeyanju, has allegedly been flown to Dubai for treatment. December 26, 2019 In "News" The convener of Concerned Nigerians, and human rights activist, Prince Deji Adeyanju, has on Tuesday apologized to the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu over the statement he made against him. December 24, 2019 In "News" Former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has alleged that those who attacked protesters in Abuja were chanting ‘Sai baba’ and were carrying placards with President Muhammadu Buhari’s image. December 23, 2019 In "Politics"