As Enugu State local government election draws near, one of the aspirants in Nsukka local government under the umbrella of People’s Democratic Party, Hon Amos Amadi has has vowed to restore the council area’s lost glory, if the he wins in the forthcoming polls. Religious tolerance will change extremism, hate – Osinbajo(Opens in a new browser tab) Hon Amadi, who assured residents of his preparedness to restore the area to the path of peace, accountability and respect for human dignity, said that infrastructural development is one of his priority. While revealing his intentions to run for the position to journalists yesterday in Enugu, Amadi said that those where the virtues which Nsukka was known for but has unfortunately lost due to bad leadership. According to him, ”If I am given the chance, I will restore peace, sanctity and the good reputation that has left the local government. There has been a lot of atrocities coupled with no accountability and no regard for human dignity. “I want to use this opportunity to call on every Nsukka citizen both home and abroad to join me in this glorious campaign. We are left with no option presently but to fight the political war to restore the sanity, dignity and above all the legacy that was laid by our fathers when Nsukka local government was created. “Today, Nsukka LG has turned to a mockery because of lack of capacity and godly leadership. I have prepared myself to embark on this journey of restoration. Gov. Bello inaugurates new chairmen, urge them to live above personal interest(Opens in a new browser tab) He said that the immediate past Nsukka LG boss is a good man, though, ”leadership is not all about being a good man but a gift from God. When you don’t have it, you can never manufacture it. Nsukka needs a leader that understands that nature of Nsukka local government to lead the people”. Vanguard Nsukka—The new chairman of Nsukka local government council, Chief Patrick Omeje, has appealed to the newly sworn-in councillors and Nsukka residents to support his administration in order to make Nsukka great again. December 19, 2017 In "News" The people of the ancient kingdom of Ibagwa-Ani and Enugu East Urban, in Nsukka and Enugu East Local Government Areas respectively, yesterday, joined thousands of groups that have endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for a second term in office. November 14, 2018 In "News" “I want to state here that in and out of office, Sullivan Chime remains my leader. I used to hear that people are ‘Ekwueme’, (one who lives by his words), but I actually saw it in Governor Chime."—Ugwuanyi February 7, 2015 In "Elections 2015"