Operatives of the Lagos State Environmental Taskforce and Special Offences Unit have demolished over 2,500 marked illegal structures at ‘Marwa Waterside’ area of Lekki, Lagos. The demolition followed expirations of several ‘Removal Order’ to illegal occupants to relocate to government-approved spaces. The affected structures included; shanties, kiosks and containerised shops as well as other makeshift structures. Commenting on the demolition exercise, which commenced at the weekend, Chairman of the taskforce, Chief Superintendent of Police, CSP, Olayinka Egbeyemi, explained that the exercise became imperative in preparation for the construction of a coastal road which will serve as alternative route for the Lekki-Epe Expressway as well as enhance free flow of traffic in axis. According to Egbeyemi, “Illegal business operators like Iron benders, mechanics, food/fruits vendors and others were served a seven-day ‘Removal Notice’ by the government to remove their property and vacate the entire area which expired on Thursday, December, 19th, 2019. “It is an eye-sore as these illegal artisans, food vendors and others littered the entire area with refuse and waste materials.” However, it was discovered that none of the displaced occupants and illegal business operators have any permit from the state government as miscreants freely smoke and sell Indian hemp as well as engage in prostitution around residential premises. Egbeyemi added that after the expiration of the removal order, the government still gave additional eight days grace to squatters vacate the entire area before embarking on the clean-up exercise as well as a clampdown on all criminal elements disturbing law-abiding residents within Marwa waterside and the entire Lekki axis. He, therefore, implored all illegal occupants on any of the government lands/property to immediately vacate the same as it would not be business as usual across the state. Vanguard Operatives of the Lagos State Task Force, yesterday, demolished over 2,500 illegal shanties allegedly used as hideouts by criminals and hoodlums at White Sand, Jakande Estate, along Lekki-Beach Road and the environs, in Lekki-Epe Expressway, Lagos. October 10, 2016 In "News" THE Lagos State government, at the weekend, commenced demolition of illegal shanties and structures in Ikoyi, Lekki and Victoria Island areas of the state with over 120 structures demolished so far. September 25, 2016 In "News" The Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit (Taskforce) says from Dec. 21, it will embark on a clean-up exercise by removing illegal structures in Lekki, Lagos. The Chairman of the Agency, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, made this known in a statement signed by the agency’s Head, Public Affairs Unit,… December 15, 2019 In "News"