The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has advised  operators in the insurance sector to take advantage of long term investment opportunities in the capital market in their quest to meet the June 2020 deadline  for recapitalization. Invest in capital market for wealth creation, SEC urges Army(Opens in a new browser tab) The call was part of the highlights of a meeting between the Commission and members of the reconstituted Insurers’ Committee held in Lagos. A member of the Committee who is also the Managing Director, NSIA Insurance, Mrs. Ebele Nwachukwu ,disclosed this while at a press briefing after the meeting. Disclosing that not less than 10 companies had approached the capital market to seek assistance towards raising funds for the recapitalisation exercise, she said : ‘’SEC told us the transparency and due diligence required to  enable the industry take advantage of the stock market for  long term investment in view of  the recapitalization exercise.” “The stock market gives us  access to long term funding investment through public offers, rights issues, equities and other offers. SEC  also told us  that the capital market is a market for long term funds as most of the other investors are usually on a  short term but the capital market will provide the industry with long term funds,’’ she added. She said that the Commission  also assured  to render the necessary assistance within its regulatory power to support the companies, stressing that insurers should take advantage of the capital market long term investment fund to boost their finances. She said the recapitalisation exercise was intended to strengthen the financial position of the industry adding, ‘’SEC  assured us that the recapitalization will encourage consolidation, reduce the risk of insolvency and protect policy holders.’’ Nwachukwu also quoted the Acting Commissioner for Insurance, Mr Sunday Thomas, as saying that the National Insurance Commission [NAICOM] had always partnered with SEC and other relevant agencies to seek palliative for the insurance industry. Samsung to invest an extra $8 billion in China chip plant(Opens in a new browser tab) She   also revealed that the committee prepared the minds of the operators toward the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 17 [IFRS 14], saying funds should be budgeted for training to make the adoption easier. Vanguard The Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, yesterday postponed the deadline for the recapitalisation of capital market operators from December 31, 2014 to September 30, 2015. December 31, 2014 In "News" The Nigerian Capital Market Committee (CMC) held its second  quarterly meeting for the year 2018 recently. The Acting Director General of Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Ms Mary Uduk , in an interview immediately  after the CMC , spoke on issues bothering  on regularisation of shares accounts, e-annual reports of… September 10, 2018 In "Finance" The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has challenged operators in the capital market to track down money launderers in the country. November 30, 2010 In "Business"