Carlo Ancelotti has said that patience will be required for Everton to reach the European standard that he wants them to. The Italian has been appointed in the wake of Marco Silva’s sacking, and though the club has been stabilised by interim manager Duncan Ferguson, who led to the team to a victory over Chelsea and then draws against Manchester United and Arsenal, Ancelotti knows it will take time for success to come. Speaking after Saturday’s tepid goalless draw with Arsenal, he nevertheless pledged to bring the glory days back to the Goodison Park outfit. “I’m excited to be here at one of the greatest clubs in England,” he told EvertonTV. “I enjoy the team, the Club. This is a club with a lot of ambition, with great history, I think the squad is good. I am here to improve the team and add better quality to the squad and I’ll try to do my best. “To Evertonians I would like to say, stay with the team as you always do because it’s really important for the players to have your support. “I would like to work together with the supporters. My dream is to bring success to this club.” Ancelotti sees success as not just making the side a domestic force, but making them a side to be feared on the continent, too. “Our goal is to be competitive in the Premier League, to be towards the top of the table, to be competitive in Europe. It’s not going to happen straight away but we have to work for this,” he said. “To ambition is for us to try to win and be competitive. The goal is there to reach the Champions League or Europa League. Winning honours has to be the dream for this club and for the supporters. I am here to try to do this. “It takes time, it’s not going to happen straight away but, working together, that is our goal.” Everton lie 15th in the Premier League standings, with a home match against Burnley to come on Boxing Day. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News Arsenal will hold talks with Carlo Ancelotti after the Italian was sacked by Napoli on Tuesday night. The north London club are still searching for a permanent replacement for Unai Emery, who was dismissed a fortnight ago having overseen a run of seven games without a win. Several names have… December 11, 2019 In "Sports" Carlo Ancelotti and Mikel Arteta watched new clubs Everton and Arsenal play out a low-quality 0-0 draw at Goodison Park on Saturday. Ancelotti's appointment was confirmed by Everton just over an hour prior to kick-off and the former Real Madrid and Chelsea head coach will likely have been happier than… December 21, 2019 In "Sports" Everton have turned to the vastly experienced Carlo Ancelotti as their new manager, with a brief to return the faded Premier League club to former glories. Ancelotti, 60, was sacked by Napoli last week but comes with a trophy-laden CV from spells at a clutch of Europe's top clubs, including… December 21, 2019 In "News"