The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) have executed agreements over the multi-billion dollars Escravos Gas-to-Liquid (EGTL) project. Oil communities in Ondo kick as Chevron shut them out Speaking at a sign-off meeting in Abuja, the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Mallam Mele Kyari, disclosed that CNL would boost the domestic gas market with 400 million standard cubic feet per day of gas supply, equivalent to 26 per cent of total domestic gas supply in the country. Kyari, who described the EGTL plant as a cornerstone of the energy ecosystem of Nigeria, disclosed that it had the potential to yield $2 billion yearly into the coffers of the Federal Government. He acknowledged the roles played by President Muhammadu Buhari and the Chairman, Senate Committee on Gas, Sen. Bassey Akpan, which he noted had culminated into the execution of the agreements, assuring that the Federal Government was committed to the project. In his remarks, the Chief Executive Officer of CNL, who was represented by the Director, NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Limited Joint Venture, Mr. Monday Ovuede, said the project would open up opportunities for gas commercialization and monetization in the Oil and Gas Industry. Economy: Group hails NNPC’S shift of attention from oil to gas Ovuede stressed that one of the values would include provision of clean and environmentally friendly energy. He assured of his organization’s commitment to foster mutually beneficial relationship with the corporation in the energy sector. Vanguard THE Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, and Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL, have executed the second and final phase of an Alternative Financing Agreement meant to increase crude oil production in the country by about 39,000 barrels per day. November 20, 2017 In "News" The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, yesterday, said it has signed two sets of alternative financing agreements worth about $1.78 billion, for two major Joint Venture projects with two of its JV partners, Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL and Shell Petroleum Development Company, SPDC. August 3, 2017 In "News" THE Senate Committee on Gas,yesterday, alleged that oil firm, Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL, illegally inflated the Escravos Gas-to-Liquid Project, EGRL, from $2.9 billion to $10.3 billion, an increment of $7.4 billion. June 8, 2016 In "News"