Three months after releasing his autobiography with myriad of claims over his stewardship as Nigeria’s Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Mohammed Adoke, operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission are set to take on the former minister on his averments. Competent sources within the agency confirmed to Vanguard on Thursday that the former minister’s claim on Halliburton’s $24 m fine settlement shared by five lawyers, $2 m settlement in the controversial Malabu deal, recommendation for the payment of $185 million to shadowy Process and Industrial Development as well as many other controversial deals that have denied Nigeria of huge revenue had been isolated for ‘clearance’ by Adoke. “We really need Adoke’s detailed explanations on these and many other issues that are very germane to the economy and financial health and image of Nigeria because of the crucial roles that he played as a minister and attorney general when these issues were consummated,” one of the top officials said. “A case in point is that while some foreign companies admitted paying bribes in the Halliburton case and accepted to pay fines in Dollars amounting to N24 million, the money disappeared into the coffers of some persons while the suspect was minister. “We really want to know how much was paid by the companies and how much was paid into the Federal Government coffers,” the official said, describing Adoke’s claim in his book: Burden of Service: Reminiscences of Nigeria’s Former Attorney-General, as outlandish and untenable. But asked to explain why the operatives would be grilling the former minister when he is still weak and in pains, the source said that Adoke was in good medical state and that EFCC medical doctors were equal to the task of meeting his medical needs. I think that Adoke has no problems and if any medical situation arises our medical team is able to attend to him. So far, we have given him the best of treatment so as to enable him to speak up and be able to prove his innocence in court,” the source explained. Vanguard learnt that EFCC has reviewed the charges earlier slammed on Adoke and is set to dock him as soon as the 14-dasy window of detention granted by a Federal Capital Territory court lapses early next year. The former minister is said to be cooperating with his interrogators since he was taken into custody on December 19, 2019 upon his arrival from the United Arab Emirate, where he had been for over a month. Since leaving office as AGF in 2015, Adoke had been outside the country, claiming to be studying in Europe. Vanguard News The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC, Ibrahim Magu is alarmed by the brazen attempt by former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Mohammed Bello Adoke to rewrite history and portray himself as victim of persecution regarding the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission's… September 17, 2019 In "News" ONE day after the Federal Government filed charges against him and eight others, former Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr. Mohammed Adoke, has said he acted in the overall interest of Nigeria by signing the controversial deal. December 22, 2016 In "News" Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, has asked former Justice Minister, Mohammed Adoke, to present himself for criminal trial over alleged economic crimes after accusing him of being used by the government to hound him. September 17, 2019 In "News"