Amidst laughter, tears and goosebumps, Fireboy appreciates his loyal fans at a private rendezvous, following from the success of the release of his deputy album. At the private rendezvous, where fans had to come to meet with him; he appreciate his loyalist with share hugs, Karaokes and more. At the arrival of the bus, he thanked everyone for coming to meet with him and for patiently anticipating his arrival. The night was drawn to a close with performances by Fireboy, leaving fans with memorable and pleasant experiences. The rendezvous was put together by Estol Africa.   Congratulations  . Coming off the success of the release of his debut album, Laughter, Tears and Goosebumps, @fireboydml took time out to appreciate his loyal fans at a private rendezvous where fans had to come to meet Fireboy, have tete a tetes, share hugs, Karaokes and more  . The rendezvous which was put together by @estolafrica peaked  when the Fireboy party bus pulled up as everyone couldn’t wait to get on the bus that had everyone on a mini-tour on Lagos Island. At the arrival of the bus, he thanked everyone for coming out to meet with him and for being patient with him as they anticipated the arrival of the bus.  The night ended with performances by Fireboy DML leaving fans and onlookers with an experience to cherish and remember  . Video: @Uchekush_  Photos: @Osbaltphotography  For more information about Fireboy DML, visit <www.fireboydml.com  Keep up with Fireboy across social media platforms.  @fireboydml @estolafrica . #BNxSC A post shared by  BellaNaija (@bellanaijaonline) on Dec 22, 2019 at 2:57am PST  Vanguard As part of the launch of an all-new Star, which spots a new label and an improved taste, STAR Lager has launched an exciting campaign with Burna Boy starring in its key visual. December 7, 2019 In "News" Rising music star, Fireboy DML  has dropped another hit single, ‘What if I say,’ after his waw song, 'Jealous.' June 14, 2019 In "Entertainment" After three exciting stops, Access The Stars will head to Calabar this week. This comes fresh off the show-stopping performance by Fireboy, Wande Coal, SkiiBii, Ice Prince and Zlatan at the concert in Abuja. December 15, 2019 In "Entertainment"