President Muhammadu Buhari has departed Abuja for Aswan, Egypt to attend the Aswan Forum designed to set “An Agenda for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa.” News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the president accompanied by Governors Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa, Godwin Obaseki of Edo and Mai Mala Buni of Yobe departed the Presidential wing of the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, for Egypt at about 2.00 p.m. The Forum, which holds between Dec. 11 and Dec. 12, is an initiative to address the interconnections between peace and development in Africa while promoting Africa-led solutions through strengthening policies and practices. “The initiative is being launched by the Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi in his capacity as the Chairman of the African Union (AU) and as an advocate of Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Development in Africa – a recurring theme of his tenure as the AU Chairman. “It is also grounded in the AU’s Agenda 2063: The Africa We Want, and the search for African solutions to African problems. “The gathering is expected to bring together heads of state and government, leaders from regional and international organisations, financial institutions, private sector and civil societies. ”(Others are) scholars, visionaries and prominent experts for action-oriented discussions on the threats, challenges and opportunities. “It is also expected to end with a Declaration on the theme of the Forum and become an annual event,’’ an earlier statement on Monday by the president’s spokesman, Mr Femi Adesina disclosed. Others members of the president’s entourage included the Minister of Defence, Gen. Bashir Magashi (Rtd); Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Amb. Zubairu Dada; National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd); and the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Amb. Ahmed Abubakar. Buhari is expected back in Abuja on Friday. NAN reports that the forum, the first of its kind platform in Africa, is aimed at addressing the interlinkages between peace and development, and champion Africa-led solutions, through strengthening the policies-practices linkages. Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja on Tuesday for Aswan, Egypt to attend the Aswan Forum designed to set “An Agenda for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa.” The president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, confirmed this development in a statement in Abuja on Monday. The… December 9, 2019 In "News" By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari is expected to depart Abuja Tuesday for Aswan, Egypt to attend the Aswan Forum designed to set “An Agenda for Sustainable Peace and Development in Africa.” A statement by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Chief Femi Adesina… December 9, 2019 In "Politics" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday met with the All Progressives Congress, APC, governors at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. June 18, 2019 In "News"