In an effort to provide Nigerians with high-speed data and deepen mobile broadband internet access, Internet provider, 9mobile has collaborated with search engine company, Google and mobile devices manufacturer, Transsion, the parent company of Tecno, Infinix and Itel brands, to roll-out an offer that puts smartphones in the hands of more customers. According to the partners, the initiative, both new and existing customers of 9mobile can own select Transsion smartphones that run on Android’s optimised Go version which focuses on speed, storage, data management and security, bundled with data bonus from 9mobile. Customers can make a choice from any of Tecno, Pop 2 and Pop 2 Power, as well as Itel A33, P33 Plus and S15, or the Infinix Hot 8 Lite. Acting Director, Marketing, 9mobile, Layi Onafowokan, said users get an exciting and affordable data offer upon purchase of any of the smartphones. He said: “Customers who purchase select Tecno and Itel phone models-Tecno, Pop 2, Pop 2 Power and Itel A33, P33 Plus and S15, will enjoy 2G free sign-up data bonus upon activation and also receive 100 percent bonus on all data plans purchased from N1, 000 and above for the first six months together with 50 percent data bonus on all data plans from N1, 000 and above from the seventh to 12th month.” Onafowokan added that Customers who purchase Infinix Hot 8 Lite are not left out of the fun as they get up to 4Gb free sign-up data bonus upon activation plus 100 percent bonus on all data plans purchased from N1, 000 and above for the first six months, while 50 percent bonus on all data plans purchased from N1, 000 and above will apply from months seven to twelve. Onafowokan added that the key objective of this latest offer is to enable both new and existing 9mobile customers to own quality smartphones and browse seamlessly. “This offer exemplifies the premium we place on our customers that motivates us to continue to explore partnerships that deliver true value for their money while delivering exceptional internet browsing experience,” he remarked. Vanguard Nigeria’s 4th telecom services provider, 9mobile, is set to have additional 50 percent workforce after new owners,Teleology beat the deadline to beat yesterday’s deadline, to pay the non-refundable $50million completion deposit, Wednesday afternoon, to the Trustee of the bank syndicate presently holding ownership of 9Mobile. March 22, 2018 In "Business" Nigerians woke up on Friday morning into the weekend to behold a promotional eye- catching outdoor billboard displays at the heart of which are the clichés- ‘Data Is Old School’ and – ‘And YouThought Data Was Cool’ with a dedicated hashtag #MoreThanJustData. This was cleverly spotted in several locations around… June 25, 2019 In "Technology" Itel, a mobile phone brand committed to providing budget-friendly, high quality products boasting excellent user experience under TRANSSION Holdings, has today announced to launch its first three smartphones which run on the Android™ Oreo™ operating system (Go edition) – itel P32, A32F and A15, into the Nigerian market. June 21, 2018 In "News"