Billionaire United States presidential candidate Michael Bloomberg on Tuesday said his campaign had unknowingly used prison workers to make telephone calls on his behalf. Bloomberg, who last month entered the Democratic Party race to face Republican President Donald Trump in the November 2020 election, said the campaign had ended its relationship with a company that used prison labour for making phone calls. Bloomberg said the campaign learned of the ties to prison labour when a reporter called. The Intercept, a news website, was first to report the use of prison labour He has so far failed to crack into the top tier of candidates in public opinion polls. A Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll conducted on Dec. 18-19 showed about 5% of Democratic-leaning voters support the billionaire former mayor of New York. Recent polls show former Vice President Joe Biden, Senator Bernie Sanders and Senator Elizabeth Warren are the party’s leading candidates. [Reuters] Vanguard News Nigeria. Michael Bloomberg, one of the richest men in the world and a former United States' New York City Mayor, has formally launched a bid for US presidential seat. Formerly a Republican, the 77-year-old will be contesting on the Democratic platform. After weeks of speculation on the authenticity of his aspiration,… November 25, 2019 In "Foreign" Democratic presidential contender Michael Bloomberg said on Friday that Donald Trump would easily defeat any of his Democratic White House rivals in next year’s election, bluntly declaring: “Donald Trump would eat ‘em up.” Bloomberg, 77, a billionaire media mogul and former New York mayor, was a late entry into the… December 6, 2019 In "Foreign" President Donald Trump’s re-election campaign said on Monday it will no longer issue press credentials to reporters working for Bloomberg News, the agency owned by Democratic presidential hopeful Michael Bloomberg. The news agency said following Bloomberg’s announcement of his presidential bid that it would no longer critically cover the Democratic… December 2, 2019 In "Foreign"