It all began with a lot of hope for Nasarawa United at the Lafia City Stadium on Sunday evening, but Delta Force Enudi Solomon’s well-taken free-kick in the 34th minute left Danlami Umar motionless and put paid to such hopes and ensured the hosts sink further in the bottom of the table. Despite eight goal attempts by the hosts in the first half, only two of them could hit the cross bar, two went off target,as Delta Force goalkeeper was on hand to save five of them. The visitors came into the second half with their shoulders high, having a goal lead and bringing on Kasali Yusuf (who replaced Ijioma Maxwell) to show their intent to defend the lone goal-lead. Godfrey West and Usman Omede came in for Abdullahi Bello and Anas Yusuf in the second half and both Solid Miners’ players were threats to the visitors defense. Sadly,they could not get the desired goal. Ten minutes after they came on, both players exchanged passes from the center half to dribble past Delta Force defenders,only to be thwarted by the visitors ‘goalie. With the home loss, Nasarawa United now sit at the bottom of the log, having two points from six matches. Source: npfl.ng Vanguard News Sunshine Stars defeated Enyimba 1-0 to earn their first victory of this season’s Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Anthony Omaka’s seventh-minute strike was all Kabiru Dogo’s men needed to tame the People’s Elephants at the Akure Township Stadium. The defeat was Enyimba’s first in the NPFL this season and they… November 21, 2019 In "Sports" The Solid Miners were hoping to end their winless streak against the newcomers, however, they failed in that bid. Solomon Enudi’s strike proved vital for the visitors as the Lafia-based team failed in their quest to come back in the second half. ALSO READ: Ihedioha promises to return glory to Imo… December 2, 2019 In "Sports" Kano Pillars Football Club on Monday defeated visiting Delta Force FC of Asaba 3-0 in a 2018/2019 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) match. May 21, 2019 In "News"