Digitalizing in Nigeria and accelerating the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, came to fore when Global Technology Company, Cisco revealed its commitment to providing simple, secure and flexible portfolio of solutions recently. EdoJobs trains youth on how to access grants(Opens in a new browser tab) The solution, ‘Cisco Designed for Business portfolio,’ was announced at a media roundtable ahead of the Cisco Small Business Summit that took place in Lagos recently. The company said the small business portfolio, delivers the right products at the right price for small businesses to thrive. It said to further accelerate growth, Cisco is doubling partner investments in Nigeria and creating an easy and frictionless experience for both partners and customers with faster response times and immediate access to expertise. General Manager of Cisco Nigeria and West African Countries, Olakunle Oloruntimehin, said: “Today, every business around  the world is in a position where they have to strategize in order to stay ahead of the competition. At Cisco, we have become dedicated to helping these small businesses leverage emerging technologies to accelerate their growth, thereby providing a fairground where every business no matter their size, can access the opportunity to realize the full potential of digitization in their operations”. Also, Small Business Manager of Cisco West Africa, Lela Omo-Ikirodah, said: “About 90 percent of businesses worldwide can be considered small or medium-sized businesses. We at Cisco carried out some intense research to see what we can do globally to cater to this market, and I must say that Cisco is increasing the focus on small businesses globally. “The Cisco Designed for Business portfolio delivers the right products at the right price for small businesses. It also provides increased investment in partner programs to incentivize partners who are focused on the small business space.  The Small Business summit is a vital event for us because it is an opportunity for us to educate our partners on all these solutions available to help small businesses grow especially in Nigeria and West Africa.” AfCFTA: Participants call for establishment of African Business Council(Opens in a new browser tab) Cisco continues to invest in building a digital economy through its curated portfolio of products. The company offers a comprehensive package of products specifically designed for small businesses. The Cisco Designed for Business will offer solutions that enable small businesses to connect, compute & collaborate, securely.  New additions to the portfolio include Cisco Business Wireless Access Points, a new Meraki Go full-stack and the new Catalyst 1K switch, an affordable entry point to the world-class Catalyst range of switches for small business.  Cloud managed IT solu-tions provider, Cisco Meraki, has taken the cause of Small and Medium Enterprises, SMEs in the country into consideration, tailoring services towards ameliorating their technological shortcomings. March 8, 2019 In "Technology" IFC, a member of the World Bank Group, has disclosed that it is expanding the availability of specialised management and skills training tools to thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in Nigeria. March 18, 2010 In "Business" Dare-Ojo Bello is the MD/CEO, Matt O’Bell Ltd, an information technology company. MattO’Bell recently launched an Enterprise Resource Planning, ERP solution called OdooSME and targeted at small and medium enterprises, SMEs in Nigeria. In this interview with Vanguard, he spoke on the solution and its place in driving productivity and… August 31, 2016 In "Politics"