Three persons were reported dead as cultists group clash in Ilesa, Osun State. It was gathered that Aye and Axe cult groups have been targeting each other as a means to settle prolonged ‘ego’ dispute between them. Findings showed that the cultists attack and counter-attack in Ilesa, which lasted three days, was the way cultists in the town prove supremacy over each other. A resident, Sola Idowu disclosed that in the early hours of Thursday, an unidentified young man was found dead at Akiobi junction, Oke-Opo area of the town. Also, it was reported that one 25-year-old woman, simply identified as Iya Taye was matcheted by a suspected cultist leading to her death at about 7:30am on Thursday at Akewusola area of Ilesa. One Basiru Adesola was shot at the chest by another suspected cultist at Okesa area while the body of another young man was discovered at G186 Isare street early hours on Friday. However, another source confided in Vanguard that the casualty was more than four persons, saying the situation was more critical than reported. A security source confided said that the cult clash has claimed about five lives already, saying if it is not quickly checked, the number may rise. Meanwhile, in her reaction, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Folasade Odoro said only three-person died in the clash. She also stated that normalcy has been restored in the town, calling on the resident to continue to go about their daily activities without fear. “There was a clash among rivalry cult in Ilesa and three casualties were recorded during the impasse, however, normalcy has been restored to the community. Everyone can go back to their daily activities without fear and should be law-abiding”, she added. Vanguard News Nigeria. In recent times, deadly cultists’ activities are beginning to gain notoriety in Ekiti State and the development is assuming very worrisome proportions, as killings and maiming of youngsters continue to mount daily, as at last count, about 20 young men have lost their lives to deadly clashes between suspected rival… August 11, 2016 In "News" No fewer than four persons were, yesterday, feared dead during a cult clash between suspected cults groups in two communities of Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area of Rivers State. August 27, 2016 In "News" T here is no gainsaying the fact that Nigeria is presently on the grip of alarming social vices, notable among which is cultism, following screaming headlines on activities of cultists which have led to loss of lives and wanton destruction of property, almost on daily basis. September 24, 2016 In "Special Report"