The Presidency said on Sunday the United States government’s decision to place Nigeria on its Special Watch List does not make Nigeria a source of concern on religious freedom. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, who disclosed this in a chat with journalists, said Nigeria and the US would deliberate on the matter early next year. He said the US government’s decision carries no immediate implication for Nigeria. He said: “The correct US government position is that the addition of Nigeria to the watch list of the IRF does not make Nigeria a country of concern on religious freedom. “The watch list carries no immediate implication, except for the need for both countries to discuss areas of concern over the next year. We are looking forward to such discussions with our partners, the U.S.’’ Shehu insisted that Nigeria as a geopolitical entity had no policy that promotes one religion over the other. According to him, the right to freedom of worship for all citizens is guaranteed in the Nigerian Constitution. The presidential aide added: “We have no policy that promotes one religion against the other. “The right to freedom is guaranteed by the constitution and we have no problem observing that.” The US government had last week included Nigeria in its list of countries that have engaged in or tolerated “severe violations of religious freedom.” Other countries listed in the SWL are Burma, China, Cuba, Eritrea, Iran, Nicaragua, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. (NAN)  Vanguard  FOUR gravely ill Nigerians went to see their doctor.  One was Hausa, another Yoruba, the third Igbo and the fourth from Niger-Delta.  They all had very high temperatures and could hardly walk and talk.  They had the same complaints: chest-pain, high blood-pressure, migraine, vomiting, stomach-ache and heart-palpitations.  They had all… July 24, 2018 In "Femi Aribisala" The presidency has assured the National Assembly and indeed, Nigerians that President Muhammadu Buhari would fully comply with the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act and other extant laws as it concerns the submission of budget proposals of Federal Government agencies and corporations to the National Assembly. July 19, 2016 In "News" Strong reactions, yesterday, trailed the Federal Government’s proscription of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, IMN, otherwise known as Shi’ites, as the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Senator Shehu Sani and some senior lawyers warned of the implications of the move, saying it was unconstitutional. July 29, 2019 In "Headlines"