Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria, IPAN, has called for the establishment of reference laboratories for solid mineral resources, oil and gas analysis in the country. According to IPAN, solid minerals, as a sector of the economy, has a huge potential of creating wealth, job opportunities and economic growth for the nation as it is richly endowed with abundant solid mineral resources across the federation. It posited that low awareness and non-involvement of Public Analysts in the sector is affecting the optimum harvest of the economic benefits. In a communiqué issued after its 28th  mandatory Continuous Professional Development Workshop in Lagos recently, it decried inadequate reference laboratories for solid mineral resources, oil and gas sector, and advised on the importance of involving Public Analysts in the mining operations, as well as the oil and gas area. In a renewed effort towards implementing stringent measures to ensure quality, standards regulation in the country, the Institute of Public Analysts of Nigeria (IPAN) has advised the Federal government to mandate the National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration of Nigeria (NAFDAC) to subject all imported pharmaceutical and chemical products to be tested by Public Analysts laboratories. Vanguard Economists, geologists and surveyors have long agreed that under the Nigerian soil are wealth and riches untold. But majority of Nigerians are wallowing in poverty. The Nigerian Extractive Industries and Transparency Initiative, NEITI report suggests that there are about 40 different kinds of solid minerals and precious metals buried in… June 29, 2015 In "Finance" There are indications that efforts of the Federal Government in getting the Solid minerals sector of the economy off the ground are yet to be activated. It is trite to say that the nation is abundantly blessed with so much of Solid minerals. April 17, 2017 In "Editorial" Mining is the extraction or removal of metal from the Earth. The mining of mineral in Nigeria accounts for only 0.3% off its GDP due to the influence of its vast oil resources. The domestic mining industry is under developed, leading to Nigeria having to Import minerals that it could… July 11, 2016 In "Business"