Unity Bank Plc is in partnership with Veritas Kapital Assurance Plc to deepen financial inclusion and insurance penetration as part of efforts to increase access to financial services in Nigeria. Terminal operator commissions N7.2bn cargo handling equipment The partnership will see the underwriting firm providing Bancassurance products such as  motor, home ownership, personal accident and house-holder insurance. It will be recalled that in 2018, the Central Bank of Nigeria and the National Insurance Commission issued guidelines for banks and insurance companies wishing to go into collaboration based on referral model for Bancassurance product. Speaking at the formal launch of the partnership in Lagos,  Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank,   Mrs. Tomi Somefun, said that  Veritas Kapital will leverage on the customer base of the bank and its distribution channels to sell its Bancassurance products. According to her, the underwriting firm will have its  representatives at designated flagship branches of Unity Bank in Abuja and Lagos  to rollout Bancassurance products. Commenting on the partnership, she said: “The new synergy will bolster the bank’s agribusiness and its value chain as customers in livestock and crop production can be effectively offered an insurance cover. ‘’We believe that this will be profitable and mutually beneficial for  the two organizations as well as our customers.” Okonkwo takes over, pledges to take Cheki to new heights Also speaking, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer,   Veritas Kapital, Mr.Kenneth Egbaran, said that he is   confident that the partnership will open new vistas of opportunities to offer more innovative financial solutions to customers to enable them access numerous benefits that are available through insurance products.    He stated: ‘’The whole purpose of this is for us to be able to provide good services to the customers. We also believe that we can find a critical mass on this platform. Vanguard OLD Mutual General Insurance Company and   Old Mutual Nigeria Life Assurance Company have entered into Bancassurance partnership with Ecobank Nigeria to offer insurance products and services to existing and prospective customers. July 1, 2018 In "Business" SINCE 2010,  there have been series of efforts across the world to increase financial inclusion, which refers to the number of people that have access to financial services. January 14, 2019 In "Business" Unity Bank says it is in partnership with Avant-Garde Innovation and Technology Services (AGITS) to deepen advocacy initiatives for stronger climate action that will entrench values and ethos for achieving Sustainable Development Goals in the country. November 20, 2019 In "News"