Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State Friday night assented to the 2020 appropriation bill of N202 billion passed by the State House of Assembly. Appending his signature to the document, Gov Tambuwal gave kudos to the assembly members, majority of whom are members of the opposition political party – All Progressives Congress (APC) – for their patriotism and unflinching commitment to the collective good of the people of the state. “The assembly despite being controlled by the APC which is in the majority has rallied round the government and supported it in the interest of serving the people of the state,” the governor noted. Assuring that “this gesture shall not be misplaced,” the governor added that “members of SOHA must be commended for their uncommon patriotism to deliver democratic dividends to the people of Sokoto state. That is the crux of our commitment which supersedes party affiliations.” He applauded the assembly for its speedy consideration of the budget in three weeks in line with the World Bank benchmark. “The ball is now in the court of the executive to ensure proper implementation of the budget. We will work closely with the parliament in doing so,” he further assured. Presenting the passed appropriation bill to the governor inside the council chamber of Government House, Sokoto, the Speaker of the Sokoto State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Aminu Muhammad Achida noted that the Assembly was aware of the achievements of the administration despite financial constraints. “The implementation of the 2019 budget has recorded a lot in the areas of education, health and rural development as well as many others. “We will continue to accelerate the passage of any bill that is meant to improve the lots of the people of the state,” explained the Speaker who said that the Assembly approved the budget during its sitting number 122. Achida commended the executive for “its record achievement in the modest improvement of internally generated revenue (IGR). The Speaker affirmed that the budget 2020 of N202 billion presented to the assembly by the executive earlier in the month had been approved in totality. Vanguard Since the speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal whose middle name simply means the’ Guardian of the Fate’ emerged the first among equals in the 7th Assembly on June 6, 2011, he had a game plan as to how to checkmate the onslaught of his party, the… November 1, 2014 In "Politics" The stage is now set for a political showdown between Governor Aminu Tambuwal and his one time political leader and predecessor in office, Senator Aliyu Wamakko after Tambuwal defected from the All Progressives Congress, APC to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. August 4, 2018 In "News" Hon. Aminu Waziri, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, has fought and won many political battles since he was first appointed a legislative aide to the first Senate leader of the Fourth Republic, Senator Abdallah Wali. His defeat of Wali in last Saturday’s governorship poll was his latest victory. April 15, 2015 In "Elections 2015"