C&I Leasing Plc has said that non shareholders of the company can partake in its ongoing N3.2 billion Rights Issue. Linkage Assurance increases authorized share capital to N15 billion The company has also assured shareholders that it would continue to explore new business opportunities, especially in the marine, fleet and outsourcing, to boost its revenue base and increase shareholders’ value. The 539,003,333 Rights offer opened on November 18, 2019, and will close on December 27, 2019. Speaking in an interactive session with journalists, weekend, Managing Director of the company, Andrew Otike-Odibi, said: “The Rights is tradable and therefore open to non-existing shareholders, who are willing to buy shares in the company. “A comparison of the current market price of C&I Leasing, which stood at N7.30 on September 12, 2019, and the offer price of N6.00 for the Rights, shows that the Rights are being issued at a discount of N1.73. “Not only is the C&I Leasing Rights presenting a better offer in terms of pricing, it is also rewarding in terms of the number of shares that existing shareholders are getting. Subscribing to the C&I Leasing Rights Offer will entail that a shareholder will be paying N24 for four additional shares that are worth N29.2 in the market, which is a gain of N1.3 per share. It means the C&I Leasing Rights Offer makes more economic sense.” Explaining the purpose of the offer, Otike-Odibi said: “The purpose of the Rights Issue is to enable expansion of current operations, implement new growth opportunities already identified and optimise the use of  technology.” He pointed out that Nigerian leasing industry is vibrant and can thrive during periods of both economic boom and recession. Roma criticizes racist ‘Black Friday’ headline featuring Lukaku & Smalling According to him, “Between 2013 and 2018, C & I Leasing’s total assets base saw an increase from N19.11 billion to N52.61 billion at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 22.5 per cent.” Vanguard AGAINST the backdrop of economic woes which significantly impacted the Nigerian capital market in 2016 recording zero capital raise, companies quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange, NSE, have begun to take opportunities occasioned by increased investors’ confidence to raise fresh funds to meet operational and investment needs July 24, 2017 In "Finance" FOLLOWING its ongo ng over N20 billion Rights Issue, Oando Plc is gearing up for both local and global competition which will take the centre stage when the petroleum sector is fully deregulated in Nigeria. January 31, 2010 In "Business" Following successfully conclusion of a bond issuance programme where the company raised N7 billion to finance its operation, C & I Leasing Plc just acquired two tugboats to improve service delivery to customers in the maritime sector. In this interview, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Andrew… October 22, 2018 In "Business"