A member of the National Executive Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC), and member of the House of Representatives, Hon.Komsol Alphonsus Longgap says those calling for the removal of the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole are enemies of President Muhammuadu Buhari. While noting that the governors at war with the National Chairman were those eyeing the 2023 presidency, warning however that they must not allow their personal ambition destroy the APC. Speaking to journalists, yesterday, the lawmaker who is representing Mikang, Shendam & Quaan-Pan Federal constituency of Plateau state, asserted that “those calling for Oshiomhole’s removal are not genuine members of the APC, as far as we are concerned the national chairman of our party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has done very very well. “I have been a party man for long and when I came in to contest this election, if not for his transparency I would not have been here as a lawmaker. He does not like injustice, he allowed due process during our primaries and that is why I emerged. Some people were trying to hijack the process but he stood his ground. “I was a top leader when I was in PDP and now in APC, but I can tell you that I have never seen a party chairman who assisted all the aspirants of the party during the elections. He did it in the 2019 general elections. I have never seen that before. So I don’t know why few persons are calling for his removal. The man is a very straight forward person and he wants the best for the APC. So we believe in him so much and as a member of the NEC and House of Reps member I can tell you he enjoys the support of majority of the NEC members and the APC caucus in the National Assembly”. He added that “We are aware that those fighting him are governors who are eyeing 2023 presidency. But they can face their ambition without destroying the party. And what they are doing is to distract Mr President which is not good for us. Today we are enjoying cordial relationship between the National Assembly and the legislature. You saw that the President just assented to the 2020 budget, I can tell you that this was made possible because of the effort Oshiomhole made to enthrone true APC leadership in the National Assembly. “The President just signed the budget into law and by January ,Nigerians will start to enjoy the benefit unlike when we have NASS leadership that is at war with the Presidency. President Buhari has said it categorically that everybody should go back to their units and wards and make the party popular. And that is the agenda Comrade Oshiomhole is pursuing and that will tell you that those fighting Oshiomhole are enemies of President Buhari. they don’t mean well for the part and we will resist them. “Oshiomhole has reformed the party and has handed it over to the masses and not individuals and he must be allowed to continue with his good work. Any body who does not appreciate what the man is trying to do is not a true member of this party. Some people are not happy because he has refused to be compromised so they can use him as a willing tool” he stated. Vanguard News Following the deluge of controversies trailing the primaries of the All Progressives Congress, APC, President Muhammadu Buhari has directed the party’s national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to clear the mess. October 23, 2018 In "Headlines" Adams Oshiomhole may not be a card-carrying member of the PDP.   As a matter of fact, he is the national chairman of the ruling APC.   Nevertheless, he has been a major blessing to the PDP and a systematic liability to the APC.   If one did not know any better, you… June 4, 2019 In "Femi Aribisala" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been enjoying relative peace within its ranks since it came to power in 2015 until the crisis that engulfed the party towards the end of the tenure of the then National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, which led to the exit of… December 14, 2019 In "News"