Oil giant, Shell, Friday, said it expected to write down up to $2.3 billion in the fourth quarter, the latest major energy company forced to shrink estimates for sector values due to a weaker economic outlook. Enugu to end open defecation with public conveniences In a trading update ahead of full year results, Shell also lowered its oil products sales forecast, pointing to the first annual slowdown in sales since at least 2014, while maintaining spending on the lower end of forecasts. The Anglo-Dutch company warned in October that trade tensions between the United States and China, the world’s two largest energy consumers, could hurt demand and take a toll on its performance. Shell said it expected to take post-tax impairment charges in a range between $1.7 billion and $2.3 billion for the quarter “based on the macro outlook”. It did not say which assets the impairments relate to. Since October, rivals Chevron BP, Equinor ENQR.OS and Spain’s Repsol all wrote down a total of around $20 billion, primarily in U.S. shale gas assets due to lower long-term gas prices. The impairment will likely increase Shell’s debt ratio, or gearing, which the company has struggled to reduce in recent years. “This reduction in guidance and impairment appears to show that management underestimated how much weaker oil prices would be in the latter part of this year, as well as underestimating future demand for oil, along with its by-products,” said Michael Hewson, chief market Analyst at CMC Markets UK. Shell, which had beaten third-quarter profit expectations on strong oil and gas trading, also warned that higher taxes would hit earnings by about $500 million to $600 million in the fourth quarter. China to connect all townships, villages with paved roads by end of 2019 – Official The company said it expected additional well write-offs in the range of $100 million to $200 million in the period, while 2019 capital expenditure was expected to be at the lower end of its guidance range of $24 billion to $29 billion. Vanguard hell Petroleum Development Company Plc, SPDC, said it invested $281.2 million (N44.99 billion) in the Niger Delta in 2012. August 1, 2013 In "News" Energy giant Royal Dutch Shell on Thursday announced plunging quarterly profits, with outgoing chief executive Peter Voser blaming the "disappointing" results on a shale asset write-down and unrest in Nigeria. August 1, 2013 In "News" Energy giant Royal Dutch Shell on Tuesday said it could exit up to 10 countries under a previously announced plan to sell oil and gas assets over two years. June 7, 2016 In "News"