Manchester City were on Friday defeated by Wolverhampton Wanderers in a match that saw goalkeeper, Enderson Santa de Morres sent off in the 12th minute. Raheem Sterling 25′ goal set Guardiola’s side on the path of 3 points. Another goal from Sterling in the 50th minute put the mind of the visitor (Man City) at rest until the game took a new turn. Wolves came from 2-0 behind to win the game against City. Adame Traore 55th minutes sparked the hope of the host as Raul Jimenez 82′ goal sealed the equaliser while Malt Doherty put the finishing to help the side claim the three-point in front of their happy fan. Third placed City trail runaway leaders Liverpool by 14 points and, Jurgen Klopp’s red-hot team have a game in hand, making it hard to imagine the champions getting their hands on the trophy for a third successive season. Wolves, flying high in fifth place, have contributed to City’s downfall more than most and, after winning 2-0 at the Etihad Stadium in October, they celebrated a top-flight double over the Manchester club for the first time since 1960-61. The only blemish for Wolves were the missiles thrown from the stands when City celebrated their second goal, an incident that prompted the Football Association to launch an investigation. Referee Martin Atkinson was seen passing a metal hip flask to the fourth official as an announcement over the tannoy warned “numerous instances of objects being thrown have been seen. CCTV will be used to prosecute offenders”. It was a bitter night for Guardiola, whose team have lost five league games this season after being beaten just four times in the whole of last term. City had looked closer to their best in recent wins over Arsenal and Leicester, but they could not have made a worse start at Molineux. Vanguard News Nigeria. Championship leaders Wolverhampton Wanderers marked their promotion to the English Premier League with a commanding 2-0 win over struggling Birmingham City on Sunday. April 15, 2018 In "Sports" Liverpool and Manchester City's shootout for the Premier League title intensified on Saturday with comfortable wins over Southampton and Cardiff, while Manchester United were held 1-1 by Wolves on the day Alex Ferguson returned to Old Trafford. September 22, 2018 In "Sports" Diogo Jota's hat-trick piled pressure on Leicester manager Claude Puel as the Wolves midfielder's last-gasp strike secured a thrilling 4-3 win on Saturday. January 19, 2019 In "Sports"