WARRI—Protesters from Ovre- Eku community in Ethiope East Local Government Area of Delta State, have stormed, Government House, Annex, Warri,  demanding that the government should prevail on Presco company to leave their farm lands. The protesters who were mainly women and elderly men, alleged that they no longer have farm lands, adding that efforts made for the company to vacate their lands were met with resistance. Chief Priest of the community, Augustine Orie said, most parents were having difficulties to sustain their homes since  their farmlands had been taken over. “We thank our listening Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. We are here to beg him to intervene and recover our lands that had been taken over by the company, as we have nowhere to farm. They should leave our land for us, so that we can grow food to sustain ourselves,” he said. Chief Felix Okotie and Mr James Abiriye,  part of the protesters, also alleged that there had been several attempt to divide the community against itself, adding that even a little child of about 20 months was allegedly crushed to death during one of the invasions of the community. We don’t allocate land for purposes that are not genuine – Ossai, Delta Commissioner(Opens in a new browser tab) The protesters sang solidarity songs and carried placards some of which read, “Presco is destroying our community roads with their big trucks,” “Delta State Government stop Pressco, “This is another RUGA,” among others. Director, Governor’s Office, Annex, Warri,  Sunday Okujere who addressed the protesters told them that their demands would be sent to the appropriate government quarter for attention,  thanking them for being peaceful, adding that they should remain law abiding. Vanguard EKU—RESIDENTS of Eku, Ovre-Eku  and Ovre-Igun, both Urhobo-speaking communities on River Ethiope axis, Ethiope-East Local Government Area, Delta State, have cried out to the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, that they have been under ceaseless assaults and intimidation, for two years, by law enforcement agents allegedly conscripted by Presco… September 5, 2017 In "News" THE police in Delta State are unwittingly embroiled in a pointless controversy with a member of the Delta State House of Assembly, Chief (Hon) Evance Ivwurie, representing Ethiope East Local Government Area, over an allegation that suspected sponsors of Fulani herdsmen were allegedly making arms supplies to them with a… March 25, 2017 In "Politics" ASABA—THE people of Ovre-Eku community, Ethiope East Local Government Area, Delta State, yesterday, alleged that Edo State-based Presco Plc Nigeria was hoodwinking security agents to arrest and intimidate Urhobo indigenes, along the River  Ethiope axis in Delta, ostensibly to appropriate their community land for the Binis of Edo State. May 17, 2018 In "News"