Minister of Transportation, Mr Chibuike  Amaechi, has lashed out at vice presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  Mr. Peter Obi, for saying that he (Amaechi) was not politically relevant to discuss whether Igbo should have the presidency in 2023 or not. Bidding the military early bye-bye (2)(Opens in a new browser tab) Amaechi, who spoke on the sidelines, at an interactive forum of Maritime Stakeholders in Lagos, yesterday, said Obi does not have the credibility to speak on the matter because he could not win the presidential election. According to Amaechi, “Obi said I’m not an Igbo man and that I don’t have the locus to discuss whether Igbo presidency will be or not in 2023.  That comment is a very sad and cheap one from him. “But the truth is that Obi too does not have the locus to speak about Igbo presidency because he and his party couldn’t win the presidential election. Aside from that, it’s most unfortunate that Obi, a man I defeated to become the Chairman of Nigeria Governors Forum, NGF, when we were both governors, can wake up today to say I am not relevant in the polity to talk about national issues when journalists ask me questions about it.” Amaechi also said right from when he became Speaker of the Rivers State House of Assembly till date, his name has been in the front burner of national politics far more than Obi. He said for the Igbo to get the presidency in 2023, they must be part of “national politics.” “I think what is important, which I have said to the Igbo severally is that they need to be part of  national politics. If they are not part of national politics they cannot be President. National politics means that an Ikwerre man must have his interest covered by the Igbo if they want to be President. The Yoruba man must have the Igbo cover their interests, the Hausa, Fulani people must also be confident that their interests are covered by the Igbo.”  PORT HARCOURT—A socio-cultural group, Ikwerre Youth Movement, IYM, has urged the vice presidential candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Mr. Peter Obi, to apologise to the former Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, if he (Obi) could not condemn Rochas Okorocha’s statement. June 19, 2019 In "News" PDP Vice Presidential Candidate and Former Anambra State Governor, Mr Peter Obi has declared that the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi lacks the competence to talk about which geo-political zone will produce the President in 2023 because he lacks political relevance in Rivers State. May 27, 2019 In "News" The choice of a former governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi as the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, was generally described as a deft move by a cross-section of Nigerians. October 13, 2018 In "Headlines"