President Muhammadu Buhari is to depart Abuja on Monday to attend a three-day Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia, between Oct. 23 and Oct. 25. A statement by the President’s spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, in Abuja on Sunday, said the summit would focus on exploring and expanding opportunities in security, trade and investment, science and technology, and gas production. During the summit, according to the statement, Buhari will meet with President Vladimir Putin of Russia to further strengthen relations between Nigeria and Russia. Shehu stated that the two leaders would hold bilateral talks on security, trade and investment, and building a partnership that would enhance Nigeria’s huge gas potential, following Russia’s remarkable success in gas exportation. “The summit, which will be attended by African Heads of State, will bring fresh perspectives on some global issues and challenges like nuclear technology, energy development, digital transformation, environment, technical security, mining and steel, education, agriculture, infrastructure and development strategies. “An African Business Forum, which will bring together African and Russian business leaders, will be held during the event to enhance Russian investments in Africa, and promote African business interest in the host country,’’ he added. The Presidential aide disclosed that Buhari would be accompanied by Governors Muhammad Yahaya of Gombe state, Bello Matawalle of Zamfara and Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State. Others on the trip are Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite and Minister of State, Petroleum, Timipre Sylva. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari is to depart Abuja on Monday to attend a three-day Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia, between Oct. 23 and Oct. 25. October 20, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari will leave Abuja on Tuesday for New Delhi to participate in the 3rd Summit of the India-Africa Forum aimed at boosting socio-economic development in Africa and India. October 25, 2015 In "News" Italian midfielder Christian D'Urso has been loaned for this season by Roma to Apollon Smyrni, the Greek Super League club announced Thursday. August 30, 2018 In "News"