President Donald Trump on Tuesday challenged Hillary Clinton to join the 2020 U.S. presidential race on condition that she gives an explanation regarding the notorious email scandal. The emails he refers to in his tweet are related to an FBI investigation into Clinton who used a private server and email accounts during her tenure as U.S. Secretary of State. Postgraduate medical college saves Nigeria over N1tr — President(Opens in a new browser tab) Clinton was accused of culling out some 30,000 of her personal emails without following the correct National Archives procedures. The Clinton email saga, also known as emailgate, has followed Clinton for many years. In 2017, materials handed over to Judicial Watch by the State Department revealed examples of what appeared to be `pay-to-play’ politics. It was alleged that Clinton would receive generous donations to the Clinton Foundation from private and state donors in exchange for government appointments, policy positions, and government contracts. Release of Iranian tanker unfortunate – Pompeo(Opens in a new browser tab) Former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was President Trump’s principal rival in the 2016 presidential election. She lost to Trump despite winning the majority of the popular vote. (NAN) Vanguard In Nigeria, we would have said the national polls on the U.S. Presidential Elections have gone ga-ga. Well, nothing to do with Lady Gaga. But for simplicity sake, let’s just say the polls have gone wild. Check this out: As at Wednesday, the NBC News poll had Hillary Clinton leading… September 10, 2016 In "News" Also, with early voting in progress in so many states, it is fair to expect that many undecided voters will now favor Hillary over Trump. Anyone still betting on Trump? October 15, 2016 In "News" With the election day looming on Tuesday, the U.S. leading presidential candidates Democratic Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump engage in a marathon race over the weekend in the final battle for the White House. November 7, 2016 In "News"