A British man and his Filipino wife were abducted on Friday from their resort in Southern Philippines by six unidentified gunmen, police said. According to the report, the victims, Allan and Wilma Hyrons, had just arrived at their resort in Tukuran town in Zamboanga Del Sur province, 794 kilometres south of Manila, when they were abducted, a police. ISWAP terrorists execute Nigerian aid worker(Opens in a new browser tab) The report said two of the suspects stayed at the Hyrons Beach Resort overnight, while four came in on Friday afternoon. “When the victims arrived at the resort, they were immediately abducted by the suspects and made to board two motorised boats which escaped separately,“the police said. It However, added that one of the boats was monitored heading toward the nearby city of Pagadian and the other headed to the province of Lanao del Norte. It remained unclear if the victims were separated. “No motive or suspects have been identified in the kidnapping, but Islamist militants are active in the area. “Notorious kidnapping group is the terrorist group Abu Sayyaf, which has abducted dozens of foreigners for ransom, killing some of them, including a German man in 2017,“ it said. Fayose ruined Ekiti’s heritage by abandoning Ikogosi Resort – Fayemi(Opens in a new browser tab) The Abu Sayyaf had also been blamed for some of the worst terrorist attacks in the Philippines, and its late leader, Isnilon Hapilon, was known as the head of the Islamic State in South-East Asia. Hapilon was among nearly 1,000 Islamist militants killed in a five-month siege on the southern city of Marawi in 2017, which also left 255 soldiers and civilians dead.(dpa/NAN) Vanguard Islamic militants in the Philippines have beheaded a Canadian hostage, raising fears for more than 20 other foreigners held captive on remote islands, with troops and police vowing Tuesday to hunt down the extremists. April 26, 2016 In "News" Philippine regional military spokesman, Maj. Filemon Tan, confirmed on Friday said eleven Islamist militants were killed in a gun battle with government troops in southern Philippines. Tan said in Manila that 17 soldiers were also injured in the clash in Patikul town on Jolo Island, where the militants beheaded a… August 26, 2016 In "News" Seven members of a Philippine "dragon boat" team were killed Wednesday when their boat capsized off the island of Boracay as they trained for an international race, rescuers and colleagues said. September 25, 2019 In "News"