The National Council of Women Societies (NCWS), says it has concluded arrangements to honour female ministers and legislators who were serving as torch bearers for other female politicians in the country. Dr Jumai Ahmadu, an official of the body, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. She said that NCWS President Gloria Laraba Shoda has approved Oct. 24, 2019 as the date to honour seven female ministers, six female senators and 22 female members of the House of Representatives. She revealed that resource persons had been invited to speak on the theme: “Mentorship: A Panacea for Capacity Building of Women In Politics and Governance”, at the event slated to hold at the International Conference Centre (ICC), Abuja. Create worthy legacy, appoint 35% women cabinet, Coalition tasks Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) “Though the number of women in politics and governance, both at the state and national levels, falls short of our expectation, we are determined to encourage our fellow women, who are either elected or appointed, to serve as torch bearers to others. “It is our sincere hope that the award will spur them to work assiduously to change the narrative in the next political dispensation,” she said. Vanguard The National Council of Women Societies (NCWS), says it has concluded arrangements to honour female ministers and legislators who were serving as torchbearers for other female politicians in the country. Dr Jumai Ahmadu, an official of the body, made this known in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja. She said… October 17, 2019 In "News" The National Council of Women Societies, (NCWS) on Tuesday called on the ninth National Assembly to appoint more women as principal officers and head of committees. April 23, 2019 In "News" The National Council of Women’s Societies (NCWS) has commended the efforts of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) in its fight against terrorism in the North-East and other forms of security challenges across the country. September 6, 2017 In "News"