Epe-Ekiti in Ijero local government area of Ekiti State was thrown into mourning this evening, as the decomposing body of a secondary school boy who had gone missing for ten days was found hanging on a tree. It was gathered that the decomposing body of the boy was found on a tree which is located in a thick bush opposite his father’s house. Sources in the town told Vanguard that the boy has been missing for over ten days after he was reportedly tortured by his father. An eyewitness revealed that the father of the boy who is a drunkard was in the habit of subjecting the boy to abuse at every slightest provocation. Some members of the community disclosed that the mother of the boy also suffers the same fate once the man is drunk, which has become a regular affair. Eyewitness said sometimes the man uses cutlass, cudgel, stick, knives and other dangerous weapons on mouthed and child once he is drunk It was also reported by some of the natives that on the said day, the boy who was planning for his external examination was said to have been beaten as usual by his father but when he could not bear the pain, he escaped from the house and did not return home. His father did not also make any effort to look for him with the hope that he would return as usual. The reverse was however the case, as the boy out of frustration went into the bush and hung himself. The offensive odour and flies which took over the community attracted the attention and curiosity of members of the neighborhood who latter detected his decomposed body where it was dangling on the tree. At the moment, police officers have effected the arrest of the father of the boy. Vanguard News ABRAKA—A security man attached to Delta State University, DELSU, Abraka, and two other suspects have been arrested over a missing student, whose decomposing body has been found with her tongue and breasts cut off. November 20, 2018 In "Crime Guard" THE decomposing body of a student of the Delta State University, DELSU, Abraka, declared missing last Thursday, has been discovered with her tongue and breast severed from her body. November 19, 2018 In "Crime Alert" Residents of Olukayode Street in Ijegun, a Lagos suburb, were thrown into shock, weekend, following the discovery of the bloated body of a five-year-old  boy inside  a septic tank. April 8, 2019 In "News"