Niger Delta Monitoring Group, NDMG, yesterday, commended President Mohammadu Buhari for transmitting  to the Senate the list of nominees on the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, to National Assembly for confirmation. This was contained in a statement by the Convener of the group, Dr. Charles Olisa. However, the NDMG flayed the constitution of the Steering Committee for the NDDC by Chief Godswill Akpabio, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs  to supervise the forensic audit processes. NDMG further stated that it is obvious that the minister  has a hidden agenda as evidenced in his nomination of a medical practitioner, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh to be Acting Executive Director of Projects. According to the group, the nomination is a gross violation of NDDC’s act which stipulates that Executive Director of Projects must be a practicing engineer. In the same vein, the acting Managing Director of the steering committee is a member of the yet- to-be inaugurated Dr. Pius Odubu and Chief Bernard Okumagba-led board. Arising from the above, the monitoring group further stated that it is imperative for the Odubu and Okumagba board to be duly inaugurated to handle the herculean task as the NDDC has been without a constituted board for quite a period. Readmore Vanguard By Chris Ochayi Determined to carry out a comprehensive forensic audit at the commission, the Federal Government has inaugurated a three-man Interim Management Committee to oversee the affairs of the Niger Delta Development Commission, The Interim Management Committee according to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio would… October 30, 2019 In "News" Isoko people under the auspices of Isoko Ethnic Nationality Movement, IENM, has commended President Mohammadu Buhari for sending the list of nominees for Governing Board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC to the Senate for consideration and approval. October 29, 2019 In "News" By Emma Amaize, Asaba Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, and Isoko Ethnic Nationality Movement, IENM, in Delta State, yesterday, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for transmitting to the Senate the list of nominees on Niger Delta Development Commussion, NDDC, Board for approval.     HOSCON under the leadership of Dr Mike… October 29, 2019 In "News"