The United Kingdom Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration would not spare anyone engaged in corrupt practices, no matter how highly placed. Mr Ade Omole, leader of the chapter, who said this in an interview with Newsmen on Friday in Abuja, was reacting to the recent arrest of Abdul-Rashid Maina, former Chairman Pension Reform Task Force. He said Maina’s arrest had reconfirmed the stance of Buhari’s administration to the crucial battle against corruption in the country. “President Buhari has shown character, and has displayed leadership; the re-arrest of Maina is an affirmation to this. “The APC administration has made its stance known to Nigerians, and as we can see, President Buhari has not changed, the fight against corruption in the country is no respecter of individuals. “I can assure you, more of the hard rock will continue to fall on corrupt individuals in the country,” Omole said. Mr Jacob Ogunseye, the chapter’s Public Relations Secretary, also praised Buhari for the intervention in the xenophobic attack on Nigerians in South Africa. He said Buhari’s decision to honour the invitation of his South African counterpart, Mr Cyril Ramaphosa, was the best option to address the situation. He expressed optimism that the visit would enhance bilateral relations between the two of Africa’s strongest economies. NAN reports that Maina was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Department of State Services (DSS) following corruption charges. According to the DSS, the arrest which was carried out at the Pennsylvania Avenue Hotel, Utako, Abuja followed a request by the EFCC to assist in the apprehension of the suspect. A statement issued by Mr Peter Afunanya, DSS Public Relations Officer, said Maina was arrested in the company of his 20 years old son, Faisal Abdulrasheed-Maina, a final year Telecoms Engineering student of the Canadian University of Dubai. The statement said Maina’s son even pulled a pistol against the security agents involved in the operation but was disarmed and arrested. The statement said items recovered from the suspects included a pistol with live ammunition, a bulletproof Range Rover SUV, a BMW Saloon car, foreign currencies, a phantom seven drone and sensitive documents. Vanguard The United Kingdom chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has described the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 election as the choice of light over darkness. May 6, 2019 In "News" -The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to quickly respond to a report by the United States government on corruption, impunity, gross violation of rights and killings going on in the country. April 24, 2018 In "News" Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank, has commended the government of United State of America for its unbiased report regarding corruption fight and large-scale impunity in the country, under the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari August 25, 2018 In "News"