The Federal Government has applauded the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, on his administration’s commitment to deepening sports development by investing in the revamp of the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium and other sporting facilities in the state. The Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, made the submission during an inspection of the ongoing refurbishment of facilities at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, in Benin City, Edo State. He expressed satisfaction with the progress on the project, which is in the final stage of completion, noting that the state was prepared for the hosting of the 2020 sports Festival in Edo State. Governor Obaseki, who was excited with the progress of work at the site, said the state is ready to host the National Sports Festival, noting “I am impressed with the total rebuilding of the stadium to a 21st-century model edifice.  We have built the pitch; the tracks are to be replaced. The swimming pool, long tennis, and indoor courts are all wearing new looks.” “The stadium is inadequate but we are going back to the drawing board to immediately begin plans for another stadium somewhere, hoping that one day we should be able to host the Olympics in the city,” he said. On the National Sports Commission building, Obaseki said the state is prepared to take over ownership of the building to boost sports infrastructure in the state, noting “This facility has enough space which has been encroached by land developers. It will be recovered and more sporting facilities will be built as the refurbished Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium can no longer be used as practice pitch.” Dare, who was impressed with the quality of work at the stadium, said, “There are no excuses for Edo 2020 National Sports Festival. This is transformational; it’s a makeover and a very impressive job. I was here for campaigns in 2014 and 2015. The stadium is wearing a new look. This is totally different as the facilities here is at par with FIFA standards. “Right from the start, we know we have an All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor who is not just a thinker but a doer. This stadium is evidence of the good work of Mr. Governor. We are happy that we are coming here in March 2020. It is five months to the start of the game and the facilities are almost ready.” The Sports Minister commended the Obaseki-led administration for the local content embedded in the project as over 500 persons are engaged in the construction work, all of whom are Nigerians, adding “I have not seen a foreigner working here today. I spoke with Nigerian Engineers. This will help lift our people out of poverty. To maintain the stadium, people will be employed here. I recommend this effort to other states.” Speaking on the release of the National Sports Commission’s South-South Zone building located at Sapele Road to the state government, Dare said the necessary process of engagement has started. “Edo State has applied to take over the facility and we are waiting for approval from the Federal Government. This is a 30-year old facility and can be complementary to the Ogbemudia Stadium”. Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaibu, said Edo State will redefine how sporting events are hosted in the country with the Edo 2020 National Sporting Festival. He said the State government has also written to the Federal Government to release the sporting facilities at Afuze as it fits into the state’s vision to create more facilities to train athletes Vanguard News  Following the Federation International Football Association (FIFA) tour of facilities in Edo State as part of Nigeria’s bid to host the 2020 Under-20 female soccer fiesta, hotel owners, transporters and other stakeholders in the hospitality sector have lauded the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration’s investment in sports development. July 28, 2019 In "Sports" Minister of Sports and Youth Development, Barrister Solomon Dalung yesterday praised facilities being put in place by the Edo State Government for the hosting of the 20th edition of the National Sports Festival scheduled for Benin City in 2020, saying they are comparable to facilities used in hosting international sporting… February 5, 2019 In "News" In a bid to reposition sports in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki has declared that each of the 18 Local Government Areas of the state would have a sporting arena, adding that facilities at the Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium would be repositioned to meet international standards and host international events. June 20, 2017 In "Sports"