Nigeria’s agricultural policies will be in focus, as stakeholders gather for the forthcoming 21st Annual Lecture of the Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI). ARMTI said in a statement that the forum, billed for Thursday in Ilorin, would see participants brainstorming on emerging challenges in the implementation of Nigeria’s agricultural policies. According to the statement, signed by the spokesman of the institute, Mr Mayowa Gidado, issues relating to rural development would also be discussed at the event. The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Prof. Charles Igwe, is expected to deliver the lecture titled, “Agricultural Policies in Nigeria: Unlocking Full Potentials, Identifying Challenges and Solutions”. Gidado said: “The programme will gather practitioners, academics, policymakers and other stakeholders in the agricultural and rural sector, to brainstorm on the identified topical issue that has been placed on the front burner. “It serves as an avenue for ARMTI to fulfil one of its mandates, which is to contribute to policy development to enhance better management of the agricultural and rural sectors in Nigeria.” He identified former President Olusegun Obasanjo and President of the African Development Bank, Mr Akinwumi Adesina, as some notable personalities who had featured in the forum. Mr Musa Mohammad, National Vice President of the All Farmers Association of Nigeria, is one of the discussants in this year’s edition, the ARMTI spokesman said. Vanguard The Federal Government has commenced strategies to develop cassava leaves value chain into livestock feeds to curb farmers-herdsmen clashes in the country. November 24, 2016 In "News" Agriculture is one of Nigeria’s most powerful tools in addressing its goals of creating more employment, better public health, and greater economic growth, says Hartmann, Director General of the Ibadan-based International Institute of Tropical Agriculture. September 8, 2011 In "Business" …as ICERIA 2019 set to address challenges By Gabriel Ewepu - Abuja An agricultural stakeholder, Jim Rex-Lawson Moses, Wednesday, clamoured for adequate agricultural research funding to boost food security and for effective economic diversification. Moses who is also publisher of AGROBUSINESS TIMES and organizer of the maiden International Conference &… October 9, 2019 In "Agric"