The Kebbi State Independent National Electoral Commission (KESIEC), has declared All Progressives Congress (APC), as winner of Oct. 26, Local Government Election in the state. KESIEC Chairman, Alhaji Aliyu Mera, made this known while addressing newsmen in Birnin Kebbi on Thursday. “KESIEC wishes to release the official results of the State Local Government Election held on Saturday, as already declared by the various wards and local government Returning Officers in 223 wards of the 21 Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. “The APC candidates won the election in all the 21 LGAs. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Fresh Party (FP) and other contenders did not make much in the election,” he said. Mera, however, said election in two polling units located in Argungu and Dandi LGAs were declared inconclusive. “The election in the two units will be concluded on Saturday, Nov. 2, 2019,” Mera said. He said the election was conducted peacefully, adding that the results were announced in the presence of party agents and security personnel. (NAN) Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is maintaining his lead in last Saturday’s presidential polls in Kaduna State.President Muhammadu Buhari, candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is maintaining his lead in last Saturday’s presidential polls in Kaduna State. February 25, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has cautioned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to accept or announce any result that does not reflect the true votes cast at polling centres in Saturday's governorship election in Ekiti State, warning that such would be a direct call to crisis. July 15, 2018 In "Ekiti Elections" All Progressives Congress, APC, Lagos State chapter has declared that eligibility of aspirants for the forthcoming much anticipated election into the 20 Local Government Areas, LGAs and 37 Local Council Development Areas, LCDAs, of the state would be determined by the guidelines of Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission, LASIEC. January 20, 2017 In "News"