Unai Emery risks losing his job as Arsenal manager if he fails to deliver a return to the Champions League after spending £152million on new players in the summer. Arsenal are once again competing in Europe’s second tier competition, with the club and fans longing to be back in the Champions League this season. The Gunners currently sit third in the table – which would be enough to secure their place – but Head of Football Raul Sanllehi has admitted anything less is not good enough. Speaking at a fans’ forum on Thursday night, he admitted: ‘We said to Unai that we just missed out on qualifying for the Champions League last year, but this year with a stronger squad, we expect you to do that.’ It is not the first time the club’s hierarchy have fronted up and met the fans. In the past, they have held a series of forums, in which they take questions from supporters and clear up any ongoing issues. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the subject of Mesut Ozil was also brought up, with the £350,000-a-week midfielder failing to even make the matchday squad of late. ⤖Arsenal join race for Feyernoord’s £20m-rated midfielder, Orkun Kokcu
⤖Why I let Serge Gnabry leave Arsenal ―Arsene Wenger When questioned about his future, Sanllehi said: ‘Unai’s policy has always been to play the ones that work hard in training.’ Ozil has made just two appearances this season and didn’t make the squad for the draw at Manchester United or last weekend’s victory over Bournemouth. The Gunners spent significantly in the summer as they aim to end their three-year Champions League exodus. They broke their club transfer record to bring in £72m Lille forward Nicolas Pepe. A loan deal was brokered with Real Madrid for midfielder Dani Ceballos with a £15m permanent deal agreed. They spent £25m on Celtic left-back Kieran Tierney and brought in David Luiz from Chelsea for £7m. Vanguard News Nigeria. Unai Emery's first season in charge at Arsenal is in danger of imploding unless the Spaniard can again prove himself to be a Europa League specialist and cover up an alarming dip in the Gunners' Premier League form. May 1, 2019 In "Sports" Former Paris Saint-Germain coach Unai Emery looks set to become Arsene Wenger’s successor after 22 years as Arsenal manager, according to a report by the BBC. May 22, 2018 In "News" Unai Emery has challenged Denis Suarez to finally make an impact as Arsenal bid to climb back into the Premier League's top four against Newcastle on Monday. March 31, 2019 In "News"