Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, says he owes no one apologies for appointing one of his daughters as a political aide. Okowa said this on Tuesday at a media quarterly briefing in Asaba, Delta State capital.  The governor said his daughter was eminently qualified for the position.  “It is not true that I have two of my daughters appointed. I have only one appointed and she is rightfully qualified,” he said.  “I do not have any daughter on social media. The one appointed for girl child education is rightfully qualified.  “I do not have any apologies for that because I know the quality of daughter that I have.”  Okowa also said the choice of who becomes the next governor of the state in 2023 would be determined by God.  “I am not God. I don’t make a governor. Nobody makes a governor. It is only God that can make one.  “The important thing is we want to ensure there is unity and equity and we will continue to work towards achieving a situation that keeps us united as Deltans, realising that working together makes us stronger as a people,” he said. Vanguard Nigeria News THE  Government House Chapel in Asaba, Delta State,  where Governor Ifeanyi Okowa , aka Ekwueme, devotedly worships every morning in the past four years before going to the office to attend to state matters,    has recorded very large flock in last few days, especially after his swearing-in for a… June 8, 2019 In "News" Dr   Chris Amechi Okobah, lawyer from Oniche-Ugbo, Aniocha North local government areas   of Delta State, is founding member of Legacy Group whose preoccupation is not only the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa but also to spread the message of dividends of democracy under the governor. December 29, 2018 In "News" AHEAD his swearing-in for a second term in office as Governor of Delta State, May 29, the jinx breaker, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, who Deltans overwhelmingly voted into power March 9 to complete the eight-year tenure of Delta North Senatorial district (Anioma),   according to an unwritten power sharing agreement in… May 25, 2019 In "News"