A medical practitioner, Dr Okai Aku, on Monday, says continuous advocacy at all levels in government is paramount to surmounting the problems of negative cultural and religious beliefs against polio vaccination. Aku, who is with Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN), a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), said this in
an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja. He said that the vaccination had no harmful effect on the reproductive system of children as alleged by some cultural adherents. He noted that some parents boycotted the polio vaccination because of some religious and cultural beliefs that it was
harmful to the reproductive health of the child. He urged medical stakeholders and the federal and state ministries of health to improve strategies on reorientation and awareness
aimed at changing the narration He said “advocacy is the only way forward in reorienting some persons who hold negative beliefs against polio vaccinatio“It is not true that polio vaccine causes impotency as peddled by some people, it is not harmful to the child at all.” Aku called for total commitment to the health of the child, saying that polio vaccination was imperative in guaranteeing healthy future. The medical practitioner explained that polio vaccination was necessary for the child, irrespective of religion, culture and class, especially in Nigeria. Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN) promotes sexual and reproductive health and rights in the country. vanguard As part of its centennial celebrations, the Rotary Foundation has recognized Sir Emeka Offor as one of nine individuals who make Rotary a force for good in the world. October 18, 2016 In "News" The Lagos State government, yesterday, said that no Non-Governmental Organisation, NGO, was engaged in the recent vaccination against polio campaign in the state. May 24, 2019 In "News" This month – July – was a very auspicious month for Nigeria in 2014. Two health related occurrences took place in that month. On Sunday July 20 2014, Patrick Sawyer flew into Lagos airport, a sick man with Ebola Virus Disease. He died five days later, but not before infecting… July 22, 2015 In "Health"