Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, said on Saturday he would continue to work for peace and unity among the people of the state. Lalong gave the assurance at a memorial Mass for his late uncle, Stephen Sule, and other deceased relations in Shendam. The governor also explained why he built infrastructure in schools and hospitals before he would employ more personnel, saying he met dilapidated structures that were not conducive for learning. He, however, assured that workers would be employed after issues relating to the new N30, 000 minimum wage have resolved. Gowon a rare gift to Nigeria &#8211; Lalong He said: “Late Sule went to his brothers in the village and told them that he wanted a male child to train because there was no primary school in Ajikamai, my village, then. “Quickly my father gave me to him, and said take this one, he is your son, henceforth. “I met other children in his house and all of us were using his name. “It was my uncle that told me when I was in form five that I had now grown up and that I should change to my father’s name. “He told me that I am the first son, if I don’t change it, my siblings would be confused. “I changed to my father’s name and today it has become a subject of litigation.” (NAN)  Vanguard Bayelsa State Governor and Chairman, South-South Governor’s Forum, The Honourable Henry Seriake Dickson, has congratulated his Plateau State counterpart, Mr. Simon Lalong, on his emergence as the new Chairman of the Northern Governors Forum. May 21, 2019 In "News" In the midst of the dastardly killings of citizens in recent times by suspected herdsmen, particularly as it concerns the episode in Benue, the media has been awash with what the governor of Plateau State, Simon Lalong, said in an interview with State House correspondents, thereby unnecessarily and needlessly distracting… January 13, 2018 In "News" When the pressure persisted, Governor Simon Bako Lalong succumbed.  He said on his declaration, “I am yielding to pressure to declare to re-contest Governorship election in Plateau State.  I know several groups have endorsed me, some have printed posters as a sign of their support…” September 25, 2018 In "News"