Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike met with Real Madrid President, Florentino Perez, last night at the Santiago Bernabeu, Madrid. The meeting was held to consolidate the gains of the partnership entered between Real Madrid and the Rivers State Government on the operation of Real Madrid Academy, Port Harcourt. Governor Wike in the meeting reiterated his commitment to developing the best Real Madrid Academy that would groom International football stars and empower less privileged children. The meeting held on the sidelines of the Real Madrid’s La Liga fixture against Leganes. Governor Wike informed Florentino Perez that the Real Madrid Academy in Port Harcourt will effectively combine football and education as it grooms new stars. The Rivers state Governor lauded the leadership of Real Madrid Football Club for the partnership with the State Government, saying that the partnership will yield positive results for the global football family. Florentino Pérez also praised Governor Wike for partnering with Real Madrid to set up the football Academy in Port Harcourt. He assured that the club will support the growth of the Real Madrid Academy in line with the partnership. It will be recalled that the Rivers State Government and Real Madrid Foundation on Monday signed a ratification agreement on Real Madrid Academy, Port Harcourt. After the signing of the Ratification Agreement, Governor Wike featured on Real Madrid’s Television Programme, where he explained the vision and mission of Real Madrid Academy, Port Harcourt to the Madrid and football family. Vanguard News Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike declared that the Real Madrid Academy in Port Harcourt has already received over 1500 applications for admission into the Academy from across the country. Addressing journalists after returning to the state on Thursday from Madrid, Spain where he signed a ratification agreement for the… October 31, 2019 In "Sports" Rivers State Government has stated that the Real Madrid Football Academy will be completed between December 2018 and January 2019. August 25, 2018 In "Sports" Real Madrid Madrid Football Academy in Port Harcourt will be completed and commissioned in May 2019 , Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has announced. March 26, 2019 In "Sports"