  ABUJA- Nigeria’s immediate past President, Goodluck Jonathan has endorsed Senator Duoye Diri, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, candidate for the November 16 governorship election in Bayelsa state. The endorsement came shortly after Dr.Jonathan met behind closed doors with governors elected on the platform of the PDP in Abuja on Friday. The meeting which held at the Abuja residence of the former President had Dr. Jonathan asking a rhetorical question: “How can I be working for the All Progressives Congress, APC, when I am a frontline stakeholder and a father of the PDP?” Healthcare: Expert says Nigeria does not get value for investments(Opens in a new browser tab) The meeting was attended by Governors Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi), Darius Ishaku (Taraba) and Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state. Director General of tur PDP Governors Forum Osaru Onaiwu represented the forum at the meeting. Jonathan’s decision to clear the air is not unconnected with social media reports in recent times linking him with forming an alliance with the APC ahead of the November poll. It was not clear however if the six governors facilitated the endorsement as it was alleged  that Dickson frustrated the ambition of Jonathan’s preferred candidate for the plum job. Since his emergence as PDP governorship flag bearer, Diri had allegedly sought Jonathan’s blessings with little success. But when the PDP governors mobilised to meet Jonathan and sought for his endorsement of Diri, the former President obliged, Vanguard gathered.     Nigeria’s immediate past President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan morphed from a political orphan who lost an election, to a somewhat global symbol of democracy by conceding defeat to Muhammadu Buhari in 2015. By conceding defeat, the man averted what would have translated to bloodletting of a huge scale. November 23, 2019 In "News" LAGOS — The violence which hallmarked weekend’s governorship polls in Kogi and Bayelsa states  took a dangerous dimension, yesterday, as the Woman Leader of  Engineer Musa Wada/Aro Campaign Council, Mrs Acheju Abuh, was reportedly burnt alive in her home by suspected political thugs. November 20, 2019 In "News" THOSE opposed to President Goodluck Jonathan spending another four years at Aso Rock have some high hurdles to scale. August 16, 2014 In "Politics"