Bournemouth midfielder Philip Billing has explained how Alex Iwobi spoke to him about representing Nigeria. The attacking midfielder, who is of Nigerian descent, was born in Denmark and has featured for the Red and White’s U19 and U20 sides. He is still eligible to play for the Super Eagles. Billing had previously rejected an opportunity to play for the three-time African champions in November 2018. During Bournemouth’s 3-1 victory against Iwobi’s side Everton last month, the 23-year-old explained how the Super Eagles star approached him to change his allegiance. “It wasn’t until when we [Bournemouth] were going to play against Everton a couple of weeks ago when Alex Iwobi asked if I might be interested in coming and playing for Nigeria,” Billing told BT, as per Bournemouth Echo. “He said the coach had asked me. It was the first time I heard anything concrete myself. “It’s a pat on the back that another country would like you to play for them. I just take that as a shrug and proof that you are doing well. “It would feel strange to have to play for Nigeria, even though my father is from there. “I am half Nigerian and I feel that way too but I was born and raised in Denmark. My mother is Danish and my sister is Danish, so it would feel strange to have to play for Nigeria.” Source: Goal Vanguard News Former Eagles defender, Yisa Sofoluwe has kicked against the move by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to convince Everton teenage striker, Ademola Lookman to play for the Super Eagles. January 28, 2017 In "Sports" Super Eagles assistant coach, Imama Amapakabo has said that Alex Iwobi has the potential to become a key figure for Premier League side Everton. August 21, 2019 In "News" Arsenal coach Unai Emery has expressed his satisfaction at the performance of Alex Iwobi in his side’s 5-1 victory over PSG at the National Stadium in Singapore, stressing that it was the winger’s first pre-season game and he missed the start of preparations due to his commitments with the Super… July 28, 2018 In "Sports"