Women Techsters, Tech4devn used its opportunity of being the only Nigeria Company that featured at the 5th UN Solutions Summit in New York, recently, to project solutions it believed would build future African women workforce. The UN Solution Summit is a catalytic gathering at the United Nations Headquarters during UN General Assembly Week.  This year’s Summit has the theme: “Lifting innovators, advancing the Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs. JUST IN: Buhari arrives Burkina Faso for ECOWAS Summit on Counter-Terrorism(Opens in a new browser tab) The women tech group said its project offers girls and women access to good job offers even as it claims that it provides solutions aimed at bridging the digital knowledge and technology divide between men and women. The company whose goal is to train five million Africa women on coding skills by 2030 said it empowers girls and women across Africa with varying degree of digital, deep tech, and soft skills required within the technology ecosystem. Executive Director of the company, Diwura Oladepo, said through the company programmes, women across African continent will be trained for free on digital skills and be empowered with resources to access decent jobs. NIGERIA: ADB’s sustainable energy fund for Africa approves $500,000 grant for clean energy(Opens in a new browser tab) Also, founder of Tech4Dev, Joel Ogunsola, said Women Techsters will provide prerequisite knowledge and insight to enable women get access to right learning opportunities in digital and deep tech skills, get access to jobs and opportunities to start tech businesses. After evaluating how far the group has taken the cause of women in digital workforce in Africa, CEO Shift7 and Former Chief Technology Officer for the United States and co-organizer, UN Solutions Summit, Megan Smith, said Women Techsters project   has become an extraordinary solution that builds women for the future of Africa workforce. The UN Solutions Summit is co-organised by the United Nations, Local2030, Shift7, UN Foundation and Global Innovation Exchange. Vanguard The training which took place in Ondo, Ekiti and Oyo State began on 11th November in which women were trained in the three training tracks of Web and Mobile Applications Development, Embedded Systems and Games Development as well as an online business training module. March 5, 2018 In "News" The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) has called for partnership among government, private sector and civil society organisations to positively transform the lives of women and girls in Nigeria through the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal-5 (SDGs). January 24, 2018 In "News" Toyin Umesiri has been out of Africa for well over a decade; but Africa has not been out of her. Her sojourn in the United States of America has seen her married, start a family and work in two Fortune 500 companies. April 28, 2018 In "Interview"