Fast rising music star, Oluwatobiloba Daniel popularly known as T.O.D is set to take the music industry by storm. T.O.D is not resting on her oars, as she has revealed what actually led to her decision to pick music as a career. The female performing and recording artist who recently dropped the video for her debut single “Iyalaya”, started music professionally in 2016 after being in the industry for twelve years. “Ït was basically God calling me to take music serious. I had been in the industry for about twelve years, but I was behind the scenes (doing make-up and fashion), even though I had always wanted to do music. It got to a point in my life when I didn’t have anything. I couldn’t even buy food, it was that bad. I heard a voice that said until you pick up your music, you’ll continue to suffer. So I surrendered and that was how I started. My brother’s death also made me buckle up.” A designer and event compere TOD who celebrated her 30th birthday, as well as her official music debut on Independence Day, has the singles – Iyalaya, Drifting anad Ise to her credit. “Music is my life, it is my career. It is not something I do for fun. That’s why it takes time for me to bring something out. I just need to let my voice be heard, the way I want it to be heard. The biggest challenge for me as an artiste is money.” A mother of one, T.O.D is influenced by Aretha Franklin, Lauryn Hill, Fela Anikulakpo Kuti, Onyeka Onwenu and Seyi Shay. Vanguard THE Creative Industry Financing Initiative, CIFI, of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, has in collaboration with the Bankers’ Committee been working to improve access to long-term low-cost financing to entrepreneurs and investors in the Nigerian Creative and Information Technology sub-sector. Being part of efforts to boost job creation in… October 31, 2019 In "Editorial" Hewas an underground artiste before destiny brought him and Wizkid together. But today,  fast rising pop star,  and Star Boy artiste, Damilola Afolabi popularly known as L.A.X  whose first official single, “Ginger” featuring himself and Wizkid has become a club banger recently opened up to Showtime Celebrity, on how he… December 12, 2014 In "Entertainment" Fast rising Afro-pop artiste, Ekene Ijemba, popularly known as ‘Humblesmith’ recently released a new single featuring 2nite entertainment act, Flavour. In this chat with Showtime Celebrity, the Osinachi crooner makes shocking revelations about his family background, childhood, music career, and the music industry. June 18, 2016 In "Entertainment"