The House of Representatives Ad hoc Committee will summon the Chief of Naval Staff, Inspector General of Police, the Group Managing Director of Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and other stakeholders in the oil and gas industry over continuing and alarming theft of crude oil in the Niger Delta, it was revealed at the weekend. The chairman of the Ad hoc committee on crude oil theft, Hon. Peter Akpatason, that the panel will invite Service Chiefs and other stakeholders in the sector, to explain the continuous pilfering of oil by an alleged cartel in the country. The Committee alleged the theft of crude oil, with the assistance of some officers of the Nigerian Military and ex-servicemen. Akapatason who is also the Deputy Leader of the House decried the alarming rate of oil theft recently. He recalled that the Federal Government under the leadership of former president Olusegun Obasanjo, set up a committee to look into oil theft in 2001, which reported that oil theft by a group of highly placed persons posed a threat to the oil sector. He informed that the committee will hinge its enquiry on 2001 findings to uncover those behind the crime. “Oil theft is a very serious problem that is as old as the oil industry itself. Oil theft has assumed a very alarming rate in recent times. “As far as back as 2001, the federal set up a committee which noted a major threat to Nigeria oil industry arises from the activities of a cartel or mafia which comprises highly and powerful placed individuals running a network of agents to steal crude oil and finished petroleum products from pipelines in Nigeria and could be possible enjoying the patronage of some retired or top serving military or security personnel, political allies of government who benefit from the illicit oil business and have persistently frustrated efforts by the international community to assist Nigeria in fighting the menace. “This a very serious allegation by the committee set up by former president, Olusegun Obasanjo and we are going to take up this investigation from that perspective to look at who are actually responsible and how we can stop this criminality and ensure that revenue derivable from the oil and gas sector is exactly what we ought be getting what in this country, nothing short of that”, he said. He said security Chiefs and other stakeholders will be invited to explain the persistence of the crime. ⤖Sexual harassment on campus: How Reps, ASUU blocked first Bill against perpetrators ⤖Employ more teachers to tackle low productivity, Reps advise Buhari Recall that on September 26, the House through a motion raised the alarm, that Nigeria was losing about N5 trillion annually from oil theft and about 22 million barrels of crude oil, counting for about N1.3 trillion loss of crude were stolen in the Niger Delta in 2019 alone. The committee’s mandate is to determine the volume of crude oil extracted in the country on a daily basis; determine the quantity sold at the internal markets and the quantity consumed locally; ascertain the quantity of crude oil stolen on a daily basis and the people responsible for the theft; further determine the quantity of crude oil that is reserved daily to process into kerosene, diesel and to ensure that a thorough environmental impact assessment of the damage caused to the ecology is carried out. Vanguard News Nigeria. The House of Representatives Ad hoc Committee investigating alleged 17 billion dollars stolen undeclared oil proceed has summoned Mr Ibrahim Magu, acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), to appear before it on Tuesday. April 10, 2017 In "News" It has been a swath of revelations, since the House of Representatives’ adhoc committee on the alleged $17billion undeclared crude oil and gas revenue started the second phase of its investigative hearing to unravel how Nigeria’s crude oil was stolen along with revenues that were supposed to have accrued therefrom,… June 11, 2017 In "News" The idiocy of the Nigerian state is magnified by the fact that whereas Nigeria has crude oil  worth over $15billion stolen from its shores, at a time when the selfsame country is  chasing after loans that represent just a fraction of what its citizens in collaboration with foreigners have  stolen… October 22, 2017 In "News"