Following the death of a female asylum seeker in Greece’s asylum camp, hundreds of asylum seekers protested the conditions of the camp. Most of them can be seen with placards that read “Moria is hell”. Moria camp is the largest migrant camp in Greece. More than 12,000 people – mainly from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq live in Moria camp, which has grown to become the island’s second-largest town in just three years, according to Reuters. The woman’s death on Sunday was the third there in two months. An Afghan teenager was killed in a fight in August and a five-year-old Afghan boy was accidentally run over by a truck while playing in a cardboard box outside the camp in September. Holding signs reading “Moria is hell” and “We want security and freedom”, the protesters were prevented from marching farther than a few hundred meters (yards) from the camp’s gates by around two dozen riot police. Moria, in a former military base, opened in 2015 as a centre to register new arrivals but is now at four times its capacity and it has spilt over into a muddy, garbage-strewn olive grove. Since the European Union struck a deal with Ankara in 2016 to cut off refugee and migrant flows to Greece from Turkey, asylum seekers have been barred from leaving any of the Greek island camps set up to process them until their claims are assessed. Reuters reported that in Moria, several people share flimsy tents packed next to one another. Women have told humanitarian organizations they feel unsafe at night and sanitary conditions have been described by aid groups “horrendous,” with over 100 people sharing one toilet. Four other island camps near Turkey are also holding thousands of people. “Keeping people on the islands in these inadequate and insecure conditions is inhumane and must come to an end,” said a spokeswoman for United Nations refugee agency UNHCR in Geneva. More than 10,000 people, mostly Afghan and Syrian families, crossed the Aegean Sea from Turkey to Greece in September according to UNHCR, the highest monthly level in over three years, the Reuters report noted. On Monday, Greece’s government outlined a shift in migration policy, saying it would tighten its sea and land borders, shorten the asylum process and deport 10,000 people who do not qualify for protection by the end of next year. Migration Minister Giorgos Koumoutsakos said Greece was currently handling about 75,000 asylum claims. Vanguard News  Nigeria. Authorities in Munich have said they are overwhelmed by the influx of migrants streaming into the Bavarian capital, as Europe-wide protests saw tens of thousands take to the streets in both support of and opposition to refugees. September 13, 2015 In "News" Italy will no longer be “Europe’s refugee camp”, newly installed interior minister Matteo Salvini said on Monday as he promised tough action to reduce migrant arrivals and send back those who have already come. June 4, 2018 In "News" A 17-year-old migrant was killed during a shootout at sea between Greek port police and human smugglers, the government said late Saturday. August 30, 2015 In "News"