Oyo State Government says it will ensure teachers in the state enjoy better welfare package as a reward for their impeccable contribution in shaping the society. Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State made the promise on Saturday at the teachers day celebration held at the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) house in Ibadan. Makinde, who was represented by Alhaja Olalade Agboola, the State Head of Service, said teachers are the light of the world and have been contributing immensely in shaping the society. “Celebrating teachers is one of the finest memory which the teachers will forever cherish. Teachers are the people who have made impeccable contributions in shaping society. “You add value to our character and make us ideal citizens of the country, of the state, of our home. I can stand before you today because I was well trained and modelled by a teacher. “Great Oyo State teachers. Let me use this opportunity to inform you that this administration is ready to bring joy into your lives by providing improved welfare packages,” he said. He pledged the administration’s readiness to increase the budget to education annually until it met the UNESCO standard of 26 per cent, adding such was expected to improve the quality of education in the state. The governor said that one of his administration’s priority was better education for all, saying such could only be possible if the drivers of the education sector are well taken care of. Makinde said that his administration has started the implementation of improved car and housing loans for all workers in the state including teachers, adding that such would make them deliver more on their duties. “Our strategy of making primary and secondary education free has been yielding positive results, especially in the increase in enrolment of students in our public primary and secondary schools. “The ongoing rehabilitation of dilapidated public schools is also targeted at making teaching and learning very conducive in other to achieve desired results. “To whom much is given, much is expected. For us to get to an enviable position in the comity of states, teachers are expected to be up and doing. “Let me state categorically that as much as this administration will not unlawfully maltreat any worker or teacher. You are free to associate with any position. “But those that are found wanting of going against established rules and regulations will be adequately dealt with,” he said. He warned teachers who are fond of staying beyond approved permission to travel out of the country for holidays to desist from such, adding that no child in any public schools should also be treated like house help or slave. The governor urged teachers to increase their efforts in moulding children to be better persons, which we will all be proud of. Prof. Julius Ademokoya, the Dean, Faculty of Education, University of Ibadan, urged young teachers to be prepared and equipped to become great influence on all other professions in future. “The fact is that the influence of teachers on all other professions can not be underestimated “The fact is that the teachers training curriculum should be reviewed in such a way that it prepares a teacher for the 21st century. The curriculum must reflect the realities of our present times. “There are so many challenges we have in this present time and the curriculum used in the previous years can not prepare teachers that will find himself so adequately prepared for the challenges of this period,” he said. Earlier, Prince Samson Adedoyin, State NUT Chairman, appealed to Makinde to ensure timely release of money for the running of the schools. “We want to appeal to him, 2018 leave grant is still there. All other workers have collected their own. Why primary school teachers alone? “That is an act of neglect. We want to appeal to him to address the issues and bring all workers to the same level in the state,” he said. Vanguard Oyo State Government says it will ensure teachers in the state enjoy better welfare package as a reward for their impeccable contribution in shaping the society. Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State made the promise on Saturday at the teachers day celebration held at the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT)… October 5, 2019 In "Education" …charges them to be moderate in their agitations James Ogunnaike - Abeokuta The Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun has reinstated the immediate past NLC Vice Chairman in Ogun state and the then state Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, Oludare Ilekoya and Olusanjo Majekodunmi sacked by Senator Ibikunle… October 5, 2019 In "Education" GOVERNOR Seyi Makinde of Oyo state weekend said that no godfather was involved in his election as governor of the state. August 25, 2019 In "News"