…as he congratulates Buhari, Osinbajo The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has said that the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari and Prof. Yemi Osinbajo of All Progressive Congress was an affirmation of the will of Nigerians. Obaseki said this while congratulating the President and Vice President on their triumph at the Supreme Court, on the validation of their election by a Supreme Court ruling delivered on Wednesday, October 30. The governor, in a statement, said it was refreshing that the apex court has stamped the last and final seal on the president’s victory, noting that the matter has been laid to rest and the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government can now fully concentrate on the business of governance. According to him, “It is with delight that we received the verdict of the Supreme Court on the case challenging the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari. The verdict is as refreshing as it is instructive in closing the chapter on the matter. “The government and people of Edo State heartily congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari and his vice, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo on their well-deserved victory. While we appreciate the need to test the integrity of the victory at the apex court in the land, we are gladdened that all doubts have been put to rest.” He also said “The verdict just like the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal ruling affirms the choice of Nigerians. It is a victory for democracy; it affirms Nigerians’ vote for a progressive march towards national rejuvenation. “The verdict is another watershed on our political history, and we are glad that the will of the people prevailed all through till this point.” Vanguard Nigeria News Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo state, on Monday, expressed profound appreciation to the president of Nigeria and the people of Edo state over the affirmation of his declaration as the state's elected governor by the Supreme Court, noting that the apex court's judgement "invariably validates the perfection of the triumph… July 11, 2017 In "News" Says verdict well-deserved The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his victory at the Presidential Election Petition Tribunal, describing the verdict of the tribunal as well-deserved. The tribunal verdict, ­delivered by its Chairman, Garba Mohammed, in its ruling on Wednesday, dismissed the petition by… September 11, 2019 In "News" The Supreme Court, led by the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, yesterday, dismissed the appeal by the governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Edo State, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. July 11, 2017 In "News"