Big Brother Naija 4 ‘Pepper Dem’ reality show winner, Mercy Eke a.k.a ‘Lamborghini’ has bought a four bedroom flat apartment in lekki, Lagos State. The excited reality TV star, took to her instagram page @official_mercyeke to share the good news as well as a video captioned. “I stepped out of the house today as a tenant and returned as a house owner. “Thanks to Victoria Crest Home for making this possible.” On the other-hand, she was accompanied by ex BBNaija housemate turned lover, Ike as she received a key with the inscription “Just got our key” amidst friends and well-wishers. Billionaire wife, Uchechi Okonkwo has served an update on Big Brother Naija winner, Mercy’s new four-bedroom duplex which many first thought was a gift. According to Real Estate mogul, Kennedy Okonkwo’s wife, Uchechi, Mercy bought the four-bedroom duplex which she described as “the best decision”. She wrote; “Congratulations Babygirl, buying yourself a house, the best decision and I am super proud. Mercy Lambo on the 1000Landladies train and moving”. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report that the ‘Queen of Highlights’ Mercy was crowned the winner of the reality show on Sunday Oct. 6, after 99 days in the house and went home with 60 Million worth of prizes. NAN also reports that this winning makes Mercy the first woman to win the Big Brother Naija reality show since inception. The light hearted diva made the top two with her show best friend, Mike Edwards, who emerged first runner up. Vanguard Nigeria News Mercy Eke, known widely as ‘Mercy Lambo, Queen of Highlights’ has made history as the first woman to be crowned the winner of the Big Brother Naija in its 4th  edition. This couldn’t have been possible without the Imo State-born Housemate storming the House with some sort of a plan. October 12, 2019 In "Entertainment" Mercy Eke aka Lamborghini  has been declared winner of the 2019 Big Brother Naija season four (Pepper Dem) making her the first woman to win the reality show since its inception. Mercy made the top two with  Mike Edwards who has been one of her best friends in the show. Breaking: BBNaija… October 6, 2019 In "Entertainment" Statistics emanating from the final day of the Big Brother Naija Season 4 ‘Pepper Dem Gang’ episode shows that Nigerians spent a whopping N7.2 billion on votes. October 6, 2019 In "Entertainment"