Smartphone brand, Tecno Mobile, in partnership with African Artists’ Foundation and National Geographic Magazine, has unveiled the winners of the #UnlockCAMission Camp competition. The competition aims at finding people who can use the camera of the newly launched Camon 12 Pro smartphone to capture wide-angle, low-light, Macro and Micro pictures. Zamfara govt to set up N50bn fund to support victims of banditry(Opens in a new browser tab) The brand selected 24 participants, called “the Unlockers” from a long list of entries submitted for the CAMission competition, who competed for five days. The participants contested for the grand prize from the 4-8th  October 2019. Renowned Photo-Journalist Michael Brown was present at the Camp to guide the Unlockers and give them mentorship tips. The highest scorer, Barineka Maagbo emerged with a cumulative of 210.5 points, while the second position goes to Arowolo Fatai who scored a cumulative of 205.5 at the end of five tasks throughout the camping period. The winners will be sponsored on a trip to Europe. Deputy Marketing Manager, Tecno Nigeria, Attai Oguche, said Tecno is excited to have started such initiative in Nigeria, to underscore the importance of its Camera-centric flagship line, the Camon Series. Firm unveils online shopping mall for convenience(Opens in a new browser tab) He said: “Having just launched the Camon 12 Series, there is no better way to put the camera quality to test than to send mobile photography lovers whom we refer to as “Unlockers” on a mission to unlock the limitless camera possibilities of this device.” Also, Director African Artists’ Foundation, Azu Nwagbogu said:  “It has been a fun journey for us at the African Artists’ Foundation, having been part of this activity from the selection of the Unlockers to the unveiling of the winners today. “We cannot overemphasise the fact that Tecno has through this medium, increased conversation around the participation of budding talents in the widely growing world of mobile photography. The brand did not just create an amazing device, but also gave a platform for talents to express their skills. This is a commendable project and we hope to do this again, soon,” he said. Vanguard In various mobile markets around the world, different mobile brands dominate different regions. While Apple’s iPhone is the undisputed champion in America for instance, this is not particularly the case in every other big market. September 23, 2016 In "Technology" No fewer than seven Nige-rians won N1 million each as mobile phone maker, Tecno, organised a competition tagged, Light Up Your Dream for its Tecno Spark brand of mobile phone. June 19, 2019 In "News" Smartphone brand, Tecno, has shown that its services is beyond providing smart phones by sponsoring 20 deserving students through university as part of its commitment to the development of Nigerian. October 9, 2019 In "News"