Creator of the wave-making Zanku sound, Chisom Ezeh also known as Rexxie is eager to release a new body of work that would demonstrate his dexterity as a thought-leader in music production. The Anambra State-born talent is one of the hottest on the scene. He is the brain-behind a new wave of music tagged Zanku, a variation of street-hip hop. Some impressive line of big production credits such as Able God by Zlatan, Am I A Yahoo Boy and Soapy both by Naira Marley among others. Obaseki redeems promise, secures three-year record deal for physically challenged artiste, Razalee(Opens in a new browser tab) Rexxie, a Computer Science graduate from Taiye Solarin University of Education (TASUED) is aware of complacency that come with success and is pushing himself harder to break new grounds. Aside his production routines for other artistes, he is already putting together an eclectic body of work. He revealed, “At the moment, I am working on my EP. I want to put out a body of work that shows different sides of me apart from the one the world knows. I want to test the waters and put out different vibes. I feel like this is best way to let people know that I do other sounds apart from Zanku. Speaking further, he adds, “I plan to feature African and international artistes. It will be out in November by God’s Grace.” Ahead of his upcoming project, his first Rexxie has tested the waters with a hit single entitled, Fotifoyin featuring Teni, Naira Marley and Zlatan. With Zlatan, Rexxie has forged one of the biggest producer-artiste music chemistry that Nigerian music has witnessed. According to him, “I like to work physically with an artiste in the studio and Zlatan is that kind of spontaneous artiste. He is the type of artiste that if you send him beat, he hardly records it. He is the live recording type as well. Naira Marley, Zlatan, Candybleakz urge youth to work hard in ‘Owo Osu’(Opens in a new browser tab) The way he loves to record is the way I also like to produce. He writes his lines on the spot. That is chemistry. Another person who I achieve that kind of chemistry with also is Naira Marley. He is a very creative artiste. I like artistes that think on their feet.” Vanguard For every music industry, there is always a trend. This is probably why it is practically impossible for any musician to reign forever, but only maintain relevance through the continual release of hit songs and music videos that align with the trends in vogue. As 2018 finally comes to an… December 28, 2018 In "Entertainment" 2018 was unarguably an amazing year for the Nigerian music industry. With the release of credible hit songs from 2Baba, Davido, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Falz, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Duncan Mighty, Yemi Alade, Victor AD, Barry Jhay, Erriga, Teniola, Flavour, Reekado Banks, Skibi, Mayorkun, Dremo, Olamide, Chinko Ekun, Zlatan… January 12, 2019 In "Music" Following the release of his anticipated single and visuals, Make Way, on Friday, World Wave Empire record label artiste, Timileyin Olayinka   Famuagun, famously known as Ceeboi, has declared himself as the fastest and best rapper in the music industry just as he hinted that he would   welcome a rap challenge from any… August 13, 2017 In "Music"