The Chairman of Ikara Local  Government Area of Kaduna State, Mr Ibrahim Sadiq, says his council has effectively begun the payment of N30,000 minimum wage to its workers from Oct. 4. Sadiq announced this in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media, Mr Abdulmajid Hussain in Abuja on Tuesday. Why Bollywood features African actors in ‘Mehek’ – Zee Africa boss The statement quoted the chairman as saying that the local government’s decision was as a result of the need to support Gov. Nasiru el-Rufa’i’ s effort at strengthening the public service. According to the chairman,  the action of the local government’s authority is also aimed at enhancing the capacity of the workers on the platform of the local government to render efficient and quality service for the overall development of the state. “I must confess that I was encouraged and motivated by the bold step taken by el-Rufa’i to fulfil the promise made to workers in the state, which is for the benefit and development of common man in Kaduna state, ” Sadiq said. The chairman assured the people of the local government that principles of equity, justice and transparency would be the watchwords of his administration. No ethnic clash in Warri South,ignore media reports ―Tidi He also implored the workers to reciprocate the gesture by demonstrating a high level of commitment, steadfastness, and persistence in the discharge of their duties. Kaduna Sadiq further promised to improve the general welfare of the entire workers of the council in Kaduna. Childhood mental disorders treatable when diagnosed early — Educationists Vanguard Some Civil Servants in Kaduna State on Friday commended Gov. Nasir El-Rufa’i for paying the N30,000 minimum wage as promised. El-Rufai in a statement in August signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Communications, Muyiwa Adekeye, promised to pay the N30,000 National Minimum Wage in September. Mr.Zubairu Bello, a… September 27, 2019 In "News" “You can see me smiling on behalf of Nigerian workers; President Muhammadu Buhari has assented to the Minimum Wage Repeal and Enactment Act, 2019.“This makes it compulsory for all employers of labour in Nigeria to pay to their workers the sum of N30,000 as the minimum wage.“It also gives workers… July 28, 2019 In "News" ABUJA— AFTER two days of exchanging brick-bats regarding the 2019 presidential poll, President Muhammadu Buhari met and shook hands with former President Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, on a day the National Council of State approved N27,000 as minimum wage for states and the private sector and the Federal Government saying it… January 23, 2019 In "News"