Meanwhile, Senator Douye Diri, has again raised the alarm that the  APC is not ready for a peaceful election in the state. Senator Diri said the recent activities of the opposition party and their continual boasts and threats to PDP supporters was an indication of their plot to compromise the election. He spoke in Yenagoa when he received in audience delegations from British High Commission and US Embassy Office in Nigeria. Coalition of INEC accredited observers commend Kano govt(Opens in a new browser tab) The PDP candidate said the party is firmly rooted in Bayelsa and would not need to engage in violence to win the forthcoming polls. His words: “We don’t want violence. Election is not war, you don’t need gun. We are ready for a peaceful free and fair election unlike our main opponent. APC is not ready for election. They are banking on violence, they want to use federal might, military and police. They are planning to write  results. “We are also calling on INEC and the security agents to remain neutral in the election. INEC must help Nigeria’s democracy to grow. The Osun and Kano elections are still fresh in our memory. PDP clearly won those elections but for the inconclusiveness introduced by INEC to give victory to the APC. The PDP candidate appealed to the two international bodies to beam their searchlight on the conduct of the November 16 governorship election. The US Consul-General, Claire Pierangelo and Leader of the British High Commission team, Sarabjit Singh, said they were in the state to advocate peaceful election by meeting with leading candidates in the election. Pierangelo, said the US Embassy would raise an election observer team to monitor the conduct of the election across the state, insisting that they will support relevant stakeholders to achieve credible poll. Samuel Oyadongha and Emem Idio The governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the November 16 election in Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri, said on Tuesday the All Progressives Congress (APC) is not ready for a peaceful election in the state. Diri said the recent activities of APC… October 22, 2019 In "News" By Emma Amaize, Yenegoa Ijaw Leaders Consultative Forum, ICLF, in Bayelsa State has concluded arrangement to stage a two- million-man open-air rally in Yenagoa in support of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP standard-bearer in the November 16 governorship election, Senator Douye Diri A leader of the group, Mr. Hendrick Opukeme, said,… September 25, 2019 In "Politics" SINCE he emerged as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, it has been a flurry of activities for Senator Douye Diri, criss-crossing the state to feel the pulse of the people, mending fences and urging a sense of renewal, preaching his gospel of prosperity and assuring the populace… October 12, 2019 In "News"