President Muhammadu Buhari has on Thursday approved the payment of Five million (N5M), on any media organization that violates the code of the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC. Disclosing this in Abuja during the inauguration of a seven-man committee set up to implement reforms in the NBC, the minister of information and culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed opined that Buhari approved an amendment to the NBC act to enable it to license WebTv and radio stations, including foreign broadcasters beaming signals into the country. He said: “The terms of reference of the committee are as follows; To establish and publish a new regulation for the licensing of web and internet broadcasters/international broadcasters in Nigeria. “To immediately commence work on all statutory, legal and regulatory framework for further legislative action on the review of the NBC act by the national assembly. “To work out the modalities for a competitive and reasonable salaries, wages and other welfare needs of the staff of the commission. “To establish necessary protocols for the establishment or appointment of professionals or technocrats (non-partisan personality) to run the agency, and appointment into the board of the NBC. Buhari calls for appreciation of historical relationships among communities(Opens in a new browser tab) The minister said the president also approved the upward review of fines from N500,000 to N5 million for breaches relating to hate speeches, and the upgrade of political comments relating to the same to ”Class A” offence in the broadcasting code. “I have no doubt that this committee, which comprises highly-experienced professionals and administrators, will carry out a thorough job that will reposition the NBC as an effective and efficient regulator”. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Thursday asked the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, to go beyond the Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC, Is’haq Kawu Modibbo and investigate the minister of information and culture, Lai Mohammed and other top officials that played certain role… January 24, 2019 In "News" It was with great amusement that I received news that the minister for propaganda, the rightly and prophetically named Lai Mohammed, was planning on releasing a new looters list. April 15, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Thursday urged the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, ICPC, to go beyond the Director General of the National Broadcasting Commission, NBC, Is’haq Kawu Modibbo and institute a system-wide investigation into the N2.5 billion NBC scandal, including alleged role possible played by Information… January 24, 2019 In "News"