The Special Anti Robbery Squad, SARS, Abia State Police Command, has arrested a four man robbery syndicate that specializes in car snatching and raiding supermarkets in Umuahia. Police sources told New Telegraph that the ringleader, identified as ‘Isi Ocha’ and his members; Chinedu Ogbonna, Kelechi Agai, Ikechukwu Alozie, were arrested after they raided a supermarket in the city. Acting on a tip-off, the SARS team went on hot pursuit and arrested the robbers. It was gathered that on interrogation, the gang had confessed being behind the incidents of car snatching and kidnapping of motorists within the Lokpanta area along the Enugu –Port Harcourt expressway. Lokpanta had been in the news due to several incidents of highway robbery, kidnapping and car snatching. “The gang robbed two supermarkets in Umuahia. Police were alerted to the incident, we pursued and arrested them. During interrogation, they also confessed to being behind the car snatching and kidnapping of motorists along the Lokpanta area on the Enugu –Port Harcourt expressway,” Police sources said. In a related development, the SARS, also arrested a notorious kidnapper, identified as ‘Success’ in Aba. It was gathered that Success who has been on the wanted list of security agencies in the state was tracked to a hideout located at Obingwa council area of the State. ⤖Gunmen allegedly attack group leader in Abia for leading protest ⤖Police nab disabled persons for using military uniform to rob in Rivers The SARS team led by the Commander, SARS, Abia State, SP Johnbull Obioguru, recovered 5 pistols, charms and live ammunition at the hideout. Commissioner of Police, Abia State, CP Ene Okon, who commended the SARS team for the arrest, directed them to raid suspected criminal hideouts in the state. Vanguard News Nigeria. BARELY two weeks after an  11-man car snatching syndicate operating in Anambra   State  was  smashed by the state police command which led to the recovery of stolen exotic cars from them, the police in Ogidi Division have arrested another two car snatchers and recovered their operational vehicles with an AK-47… May 17, 2018 In "News" The police in Abia have commenced an aggressive mop-up of criminal in the state with a view to creating a crime-free environment for both the residents and holiday makers during the forth-coming Xmas and New Year festivities. The command boss, Leye Oyebade, said they are making good their resolve to… December 3, 2016 In "Crime Guard" Detectives attached to Anti- Cultism Unit of the Lagos State Command have smashed an inter-state syndicate which specialised in snatching vehicles in any part of the country and selling same at give-away prices. February 22, 2019 In "News"