The Abia House of Assembly has called on federal lawmakers from the state to draw Federal Government’s attention to the deplorable condition of federal roads in the state. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the call was part of the resolutions taken during Tuesday’s plenary session of the house, presided over by its Speaker, Mr Chinedum Orji. The house also urged the state government to mandate the Abia State Road Maintenance Agency (ABROMA) to apply some palliatives on the failed portions of the roads, pending the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the roads by the federal government. The house listed the dilapidated roads in the state to include the Umuahia-Ikwuano Road, Umuahia-Bende Road and Ohafia-Arochukwu Road, among others. The resolution followed a motion of urgent public importance moved by Mr Stanley Nwabuis, representing Ikwuano State Constituency. In the motion, Nwabuisi drew the attention of the house to the increasing dilapidation on the Umuahia-Ikwuano-Ikote Ekpene Road. He regretted that the road, which serves as a major economic access point linking the state to Akwa Ibom, Rivers and Cross River, had completely collapsed. He said that the poor road condition posed a serious challenge to the evacuation of farm produce from the area. He said that the federal government in May approved N13.2 billion for the reconstruction of the road but regretted that work had yet to commence on the project. Nwabuisi acknowledged the efforts of Rep. Sam Onuigbo, representing Ikwuano/Umuahia Federal Constituency, toward the reconstruction of the road. Vanguard By Anayo Okoli UMUAHIA—THE cries of some communities, including the people of Ariam in Ikwuano Council of Abia State, motorists and commuters plying the Umuahia-Ikot Ekpene-Uyo federal road, seem to have touched the Federal Government as it has set plans in motion to repair the deplorable failed sections of the… May 15, 2019 In "News" The Abia State House of Assembly may be heading for a major crisis as some lawmakers elected on the platform of the opposition All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, have accused the Speaker, Martin Azubuike, of deceiving them over the N30bn loan recently approved for the state government. August 4, 2015 In "Politics" SECRETARY to the Edo State Government, Mr. Pally Iriase, has lamented the deplorable state of federal roads in the state. He has, therefore, charged the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency, FERMA, and other agencies responsible for the maintenance of the roads to live up to their responsibilities. November 22, 2010 In "News"