AXA Mansard, a member of AXA, has said that the financial decisions that women need to make in their journey as professionals, entrepreneurs or businesswomen are very vital and should be properly managed at the start through to their retirement. Head of Business Development at AXA Mansard Pensions Limited, Mrs Naomi Aduku made the assertion when the company partnered with LagosMums to hold the 6th edition of its annual Parenting Conference and exhibition. Aduku said, “It is safe to say that women have become an important market for the insurance and financial services sector. Whether as entrepreneurs or heads of household, women now make financial decisions more than they used to. Women own one-third of the world’s businesses, and their average income in emerging markets continues to increase. As such, the financial decisions that women need to make in their journey as professionals, entrepreneurs or businesswomen are very vital and should be properly managed at the start through to their retirement. This is why AXA Mansard Pensions is proud to be a part of this event which encourages engagement of women in various works of life. AXA sees women as valuable clients and employees and will continue to be their trusted partner.” The annual event has become a popular way for mothers to meet, network, share experiences, talk about parenting, discuss ways to achieve work-life balance and many more activities. Vanguard AXA Mansard, a member of AXA, a global leader in insurance and asset management joins women all over the world to celebrate the International Women’s Day. March 7, 2019 In "News" AXA Mansard Insurance Plc, a member of AXA, has emphasized that health insurance can benefit mother and baby. August 19, 2019 In "Business" AXA Mansard Investments Limited, the asset management subsidiary of AXA Mansard Group, has launched two new Mutual Funds – the AXA Mansard Money Market Fund and the AXA Mansard Equity Income Fund as part of its commitment to deliver superior value to investors, . September 25, 2016 In "News"