The Nigerian Army says it has captured 10 suspected key Boko Haram members at Bitta in Gwoza LGA of Borno, trying to escape the troops’ sustained onslaught on them. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col. Aminu Iliyasu, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday in Abuja. He said that a successful sting operation conducted on Oct. 9 by troops of the 26 Task Force Brigade led to the arrest of the suspects. According to him, many of those arrested have been identified to have operated combat vehicles during the infamous Boko Haram attack on Gwoza in 2014. “The arrested suspects include Shettima Mustapha Umar, Abba Buji, Alhaji Bukar Madu-(KAHID – a Boko Haram Terrorists’ equivalent of a Brigadier General), Ali Hassan (Boko Haram Terrorist Imam) and Alkali Laminu. “ Others are Bukur Mustapha, Buba Umaru (Alias Black Uhuru) also a KAHID, Madu Nosobe, Mustapha Hussaine and Umar Jeddum all from Bama LGA of Borno State. “It is gratifying to note that one of the arrested suspects, Alhaji Bukar Modu is Serial 89 on the high profile Boko Haram leaders wanted list published by the authorities of the Nigerian Army,’’ he said. Iliyasu said that the troops of the Nigerian Army had stepped up operations nationwide to checkmate the activities of criminals, adding that various operations had yielded results. He also said that troops of 1 Division Garrison Tactical Headquarters, Kaduna, intercepted suspected cattle rustlers and recovered 23 rustled cows in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area. According to him, efforts are on to identify the owners of the stolen livestock for eventual release to them. Iliyasu further said that five herdsmen complicit in the murder of one Haliru Yahaya on his farm in Birniwa in Jigawa, were arrested in a joint operation by the army and police. The operations spokesman said that the arrested suspects were currently in the custody of the Nigeria Police in Birniwa while troops maintain vigilance in the area to forestall any escalation. According to him, notorious armed robbers and kidnappers, vandals and oil bunkers were also arrested in Edo, Ondo, Ogun, Plateau, Delta, and Rivers states in different operations of the army. “In the light of the above, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen Tukur Buratai wishes to thank all patriotic citizens for availing the Nigerian Army with useful information leading to the successes so far recorded. “He also congratulated the troops for the unprecedented successes in the arrest of the 10 Boko Haram criminals and admonished them to keep the pressure on the insurgents and their collaborators,” Iliyasu said. vanguard Ndahi Marama - MAIDUGURI Troops of the Operation Lafiya Dole have captured 10 suspected Boko Haram commanders during raids on the terrorists' hideouts in Borno State. The Nigerian Army Operations Media Coordinator, Col. Aminu Illiyasu, disclosed this in a statement on Saturday. According to him, troops have equally stepped up… October 12, 2019 In "News" By Ndahi Marama - Maiduguri As Nigerian Army continues to heighten the tempo of her operational activities against bandits, insurgents and other criminal elements nationwide, the gallant troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE have stepped up artillery bombardment of identified Boko Haram criminals’ enclaves and hideouts which led to the capture… October 12, 2019 In "News" Troops of 93 Battalion, 13 Brigade Nigerian Army, on Saturday 28th October 2017, based on a tip off by security conscious and well meaning Nigerians, arrested two suspected Boko Haram terrorists; Mallam Jamilu Adamu and Mallam Garba Adamu, seeing loitering around at Gishiri village, Ibbi Local Government Area of Taraba… October 29, 2017 In "News"