Alhaji Shehu Kawo, an All Progressives Congress(APC) Chieftian in Niger on Wednesday commended President Muhammadu Buhari for presenting “ a well focused’’ Budget to the National Assembly for the 2020 fiscal year. Kawo made the commendation in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna on Wednesday. He said that the content of the budget and its distribution to various sectors entailed commitment, seriousness, focus and transparent in meeting the expectations of Nigerians through good democratic governance. He also said that the early submission of the budget to the National Assembly would provide the legislature with ample time to work on the proposed estimates. The APC Stalwart also said that the current cordial relationship between the National Assembly and the Executive would boost the nation’s democracy. Stop paying salary to workers not on IPPIS -Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) He urged the legislature to ensure speedy passage of the budget to ensure massive infrastructure development in the country. “The 9th National Assembly is different from the 8th Assembly in attitude, composition, and patriotism and will meet the expectations of Nigerians by ensuring good democratic governance,’’ he said. NAN  reports that President Muhammadu  Buhari had on Tuesday presented a budget proposal of N10.33 trillion to a joint session of the National Assembly for the 2020 fiscal year.(NAN) Vanguard Days after President Muhammadu Buhari presented the 2019 budget at the joint session of the national Assembly, criticisms have continued to trickle in, especially as concerns claims of development that the president made while defending the budget.  One of such criticisms is on the Second Niger Bridge. December 23, 2018 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has ‎hailed the N6.08 trillion 2016 budget presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to a joint-session of the 8th National Assembly. December 22, 2015 In "News" The President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday while presenting the 2020 Budget proposal (Appropriation Bill) said starting from November, all government agencies must obtain approval before deciding on any recruitment exercise. "By end of October, 2019 agencies must obtain approval before embarking on a new recruitment exercise or face… October 8, 2019 In "News"