Federal government has said it will support Bauchi state government to modernise its grazing reserves in line with international best practice. The minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono disclosed this during the weekend while interacting with stakeholders in the agriculture sector in Bauchi. Nanono said the Livestock Transformation Plan initiated by President Buhari’s administration is to cater to the needs of beneficiaries who would key into the programme. “The Ministry will sensitise farmers and other critical stakeholders on the need to key into the policy because already foreign investors have agreed to invest in the sector. “I assure you of federal government support for effective implementation of the policy Bauchi state. By the time it is fully implemented, our industries will be revived and our youths will have enough jobs to go to,” he said. Also speaking, Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed welcomed the idea, saying if properly utilized, grazing reserves in the state would contribute positively towards the reduction of poverty and unemployment. Represented by his deputy, Baba Tela, the governor said already the state government has keyed into the federal government’s livestock transformation plan. He expressed the readiness of his administration to modernize its grazing reserves for the socio-economic development of the state. Vanguard News Nigeria. Charles Agwam - Bauchi The  Federal Government has said it would support the Bauchi State government to modernize its grazing reserves in line with international best practices. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, disclosed this on Saturday while interacting with agricultural sector stakeholders in Bauchi.… October 12, 2019 In "News" The Federal Government has urged stakeholders in the agricultural sector to show more commitment to the sector’s value chain in order to meet the much-needed quality agricultural products. The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Nanono, made the call when he visited the Bauchi Old Galambi cattle ranch… October 12, 2019 In "Agric" The Federal Government is set to partner Gombe State Government on the establishment of modern grazing reserves to harness the livestock potential in the state. Alhaji Sabo Nanono, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, said this when he paid a courtesy call on Gov. Inuwa Yahaya in Gombe. Nanono… October 11, 2019 In "Agric"