 Discussions about 5G Network took centre stage at opening celebration of 39th edition of GITEX week holding in Dubai, United Arab Emirate. The four days annual event, which kicked off on Sunday, witnessed local and international operators, regulators, innovators and investors from across over 125 countries from across the globe. Despite other disruptive and emerging technologies springing up all over the world, 5G  was the major focus at the Sunday opening session  of the technology Expo, showcasing digital transformation and innovation expected in education, health, oil and gas, transportation, aviation. Analysts at the event said 5G infrastructure is expected to hit $4.2billion, an increase of 89% by end of 2019. NIGERIA @ 59: Kudos, knocks greet Buhari’s speech, diminishing VP’s role(Opens in a new browser tab) According to them, investors in 5G infrastructure are expected to take 5% market share  of total communications service providers and that wireless infrastructure revenue in 2019 will likely jump to 11.6% in 2020. The Senior Vice President, Event Management, DWTC, Trixie Loh Mirmand who confirmed said: ‘‘5G high profile today reinforces  the importance of GITEX as a regional platform for cutting edge technology. GITEX continues to be the dinitetive platform where enterprises, start-ups and government entries come together, striving to  engage the global technology communications to harness the limitless ingenuity of human and the power of technology to ensure meaningful benefits on society through intelligent discourcse. ‘’ Among other 5G champions on display, Huawei was the leading champion, showcasing its full range of networking kit and cloud solutions at the show. For the Vice President, Strategy at Huawei, Middle East, Hani Elkukhu Middle East 5G is gaining momentum in the commercial adoption. Also present with 5G was Ericson which showcased full range of network infrastructure services, though had won the contracts in the region and is on the hunt for more. ‘‘The exciting turning point that we have been eagerly waiting for  is finally being realized, said Vice President, Middle East  and Africa  and head of Gulf Council countries, Ericsson, Which Bajda. The event provided start-ups, government entities, industry players avenue to engage in how best to harness  the limitless ingenuity of human and the power of  technology to ensure meaningful benefits and impacts on society through intelligent discourse. Another major technology on display were smart initiative by Dubai government on its bid to achieve a paperless society by 2021. ‘‘Smart Dubai is collaborating with government entities  and private sector  partners  to shed  light  on the initiatives launched  across the Dubai government,  and to showcase  the progress  made on the ambitious  Dubai paperless strategy 2021.’’ The initiative according to H E Aisha of Dubai seeks to save hundreds of hours for customers and the government, increasing Dubai’s sustainability, competitiveness and economic growth.  … As NITDA Boss Hosts Africa Investment Forum By Emmanuel Elebeke The Minister of Communications, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami will be leading major Nigerian businesses and economic players to attend this year’s Gulf Information Technology Exhibition, GITEX 2019 in Dubai, United Arab Emirate from October 6-10, 2019. The country’s… October 5, 2019 In "News" All is set for the Nigeria at Gitex Roadshow to hold in coal city Enugu this week which is also hosting the annual Conference of the Nigeria Computer Society (NCS). July 20, 2014 In "Technology" Director General of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA, Mr. Peter Jack and the Executive Secretary/CEO of the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) Mrs. Uju Aisha Hassan Baba, are part of the plenary sessions anchoring the themes of GITEX 2015 holding this next month at the Dubai World Trade… September 14, 2015 In "Technology"