The aftermath of the resignation of the Chairman, Osun State Chapter of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Dr. Bayo Faforiji, the party’s National Working Committee has approved the appointment of Dr. Sola Oladeinde as the State Caretaker Chairman. The appointment letter dated 04th October 2019, mandated the Oladeinde led-Caretaker to resolve the crisis rocking the party in the state. The national leadership of the party added that the appointment of Oladeinde was in consonance with Article 12.5 subsection (1)&(2) and 19.6 of the constitution of the SDP as amended in 2018. Part of the mandate given to the committee as contained in the letter include; “The new caretaker committee should as a matter of urgency identify aggrieved current and past members of the party and deploy conflict management mechanism, skills and act to reconcile them and get them back to the party. “It should also draw a means of organising and repositioning the party in accordance with the guideline from the national headquarters of the party. “You are also mandated to streamline administrative and political processes within the party in relation to setting up Elders Council, intral communication network, administrative offices, membership register, bank account, state, local and ward secretariat, signboards, banners, flags in accordance with new party policies”. The party also urged the committee to embark on massive recruitment of members across the state, especially the youth to rejuvenate the party ahead of elections in the state. It would be recalled that crisis engulfed Osun SDP after its governorship candidate, Senator Iyiola Omisore and some members of the party entered into a coalition, assisted and supported the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to win the rerun election in some local government councils to win the September 27, 2018 governorship election in the state. vanguard Former factional chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Osun state and political associate of Senator Iyiola Omisore, Dr. Bayo Faforiji weekend emerged the new state chairman of the Social Democratic Party, SDP. July 8, 2018 In "News" The Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Osun State has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the crisis tearing the party apart in the state just as it expressed shock at the blatant disobedience to court orders by the electoral body. July 18, 2018 In "News" The Social Democratic Party, SDP, has fixed July 18th,this year for the party governorship primary election ahead of the forthcoming election in Osun state. June 30, 2018 In "News"