Taraba state government has flayed Nigeria’s Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago, Hassan Ardo for calling on the State Assembly members to institute an impeachment process against Gov Darius Ishaku. Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to the governor, Bala Dan Abu in a statement late Wednesday night attributed the call credited to Ardo in media reports as product of the bitterness he still nurses after the defeat of the All Progressive Congress, APC, in the last governorship elections. According to Abu, the call by Ardo “clearly shows the frustrations of the APC leaders in the state arising from the serial humiliating defeats which the party suffered in the hands of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in the gubernatorial elections of March 9, 2019 in the state and in the petitions it brought against the outcome of that election to the tribunal and the court of Appeal. “Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku has not committed any impeachable offence and the Taraba State House Assembly will not do the bidding of the APC just to pacify members of the party who are still nursing the wounds of electoral defeats. Stop heating up the polity, OSM tells Oshiomhole(Opens in a new browser tab) “Members of the Taraba State House of Assembly are responsible and patriotic political leaders from their various constituencies in the state and would not act as agents of destabilization for the APC. “We urge the Honourable members to ignore the ranting of the frustrated APC member.” He noted that the administration of governor Ishaku in the last four years has been prudent with the meager resources coming into the state. “From the meager resources that come into the state monthly, salaries, pensions and gratuities are being paid regularly every month. “Numerous projects have also been executed. The state now has functioning hospitals. It never did for several decades. Water now flows to most homes in our towns among other development projects. I’m rejuvenated to continue my work – Aisha Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) “We urge the APC leaders in the state to purge themselves of this bitterness and join hands with the government to work for peace and development of Taraba State, ” the statement added. Vanguard Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, Alhaji Hassan Ardo, has urged the Taraba State House of Assembly to urgently commence the process of impeachment against Gov. Darius Ishaku for alleged gross violation of the constitution, fraudulent misappropriation of state funds and incompetence in conducting the affairs of… October 16, 2019 In "News" The Taraba State Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Jika Ardo has called on the incumbent governor, Darius Ishaku and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to accept defeat and join the train of change. December 15, 2015 In "News" Taraba state police command has confirmed an attack on the campaign entourage of Taraba All Progressive Congress, APC, governorship candidate, Sani Danladi in Wukari local government area of the state. January 17, 2019 In "News"