THE Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, has indicated interest to effect further cut in Nigeria’s oil output in line the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC directive. The group managing director, NNPC, Mele Kolo Kyari, disclosed this in Abuja yesterday, adding that Nigeria’s September crude oil and condensate output stood at 2.1-2.2 million barrels per day (bpd). FAAC shares N720.880bn among FG, states, LGs for August(Opens in a new browser tab) He said: “We will (cut) across the assets. The OPEC quota (is) on crude production only, not on condensate, so it doesn’t affect the condensate,” he told reporters at a conference in Fujairah in the United Arab Emirates. “Our non-conformity is clearly on the crude, and it’s not significant so when you spread it across all the assets it will not be a shock.” Kyari added that Nigeria hoped to raise oil production to about 3 million bpd in the next 2 to 3 years. The 14-nation OPEC agreed in December with non-OPEC partners including Russia to reduce supply by 1.2 million bpd from the start of this year. According to a Reuters survey published on Monday, Nigeria had pumped beyond its quota by 265,000 bpd in September, more than any other OPEC state. Iraq, Congo, Ecuador and Gabon had also over-produced but by much smaller margins, the survey found. Atiku demands N500m from Onochie for defamation(Opens in a new browser tab) Nigeria is also discussing potential investment opportunities with Saudi Aramco and ADNOC of the United Arab Emirates in Nigeria, and discussing potential gasoline supply with Aramco trading. The NNPC was exploring the possibility of ADNOC investing in mid-stream pipelines and refineries in Nigeria, Kyari said. “We are talking to (Aramco Trading) … We are looking at all opportunities and they are quite keen to supply gasoline to West Africa”, he added. Vanguard Implementation of the 2017 budget recently passed by the Senate may be a huge challenge, following disagreement between the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC, and the Federal Government over Nigeria’s oil output. May 16, 2017 In "Headlines" Ministry of Petroleum Resources, MPR, and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, have embarked on measures targeted at stabilising output at 2.3 million barrels per day, bpd, to generate adequate funds for development. July 9, 2019 In "Energy" Shell Petroleum Development Company Limited has officially lifted force majeure on exports of Nigeria’s Forcados crude oil, thus increasing the nation’s oil output by additional 200,000 barrels per day. June 8, 2017 In "News"