Agri-Tech Company, Big Dutchman, recently started a training partnership with a German NGO, AFOS Foundation to improve efficiency in agriculture production in Nigeria. Big Dutchman, a subsidiary of Big Dutchman International said the partnership will focus on a dual vocational training for livestock technicians. The programme, Technical Vocational Education Training, TVET, is aimed to improve the efficiency of local agricultural value chains and create a skilled workforce within the Nigerian agricultural industry. It said the training will be carried out in close co-operation with companies in the field of livestock and crop business  within Lagos and Ibadan Nigeria. According to the company, the training will consist of 11 classroom modules. These modules will cover the entire value chain of poultry production, as well as, further instructions in economics, record keeping and people business. After one week class room training, the trainees will go back to their work place and will be exposed to other fields within their companies. Nigeria @ 59: Anyaso renews call for patriotism, youth participation in governance(Opens in a new browser tab) Managing Director of the company, Thomas Ogundiran, said the partnership will create future pacesetting technicians within the industry. He said, “The Nigerian agriculture industry currently has a shortage of skilled technicians. For us to truly leverage the financial and technological interventions that are expected to guide Nigeria towards agricultural self-sufficiency, we need innovative technicians who are pace setters in the agricultural industry.” Also the company’s Human Resource Manager, Ms. Linda Itabor, encouraged other stakeholders to place priority on youth empowerment in Nigeria. She said, “Big Dutchman will provide training on poultry equipment for all trainees and improve the technical skills of all cooperating companies.” She added that the training will run for over a year and will equip the participants with the relevant skills needed to ensure optimization of their job roles. Vanguard Let me start by explaining that the State of Osun -Sachsen-Anhalt agricultural cooperation is a platform to tackle agricultural challenges and increase the potentials and viability of agri-business in Nigeria, starting with Osun State. February 16, 2017 In "News" C-LAP being a Comprehensive Agricultural Plan for Local Government Areas and  a blueprint for agricultural revolution. September 30, 2017 In "News" The Competitive African Rice Initiative (CARI) has started training agricultural desk officers in the bank sector to boost their capacity to support rice farmers with loans with low interest rates. Dr Andrew Efisue, the Country Operations Manager of CARI, made this known in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria… November 29, 2017 In "News"