Mmusi Maimane has stepped down as the head of South Africa’s Democratic Alliance (DA) opposition party. Maimane wanted to build a party that represents all South Africans, particularly black citizens of the country, he said in a statement on Wednesday. Over the last months, it became clear that some members of his party were not in line with his vision. Consequently, he stepped down as head of the party after four years, the 39-year-old said. Many still see the DA as the party of the white minority in spite of the leadership of Maimane, who is black. READ ALSO: Remains of former Spanish dictator Gen Francisco Franco to be exhumed READ ALSO: Russia to support the construction of 1,400km rail track from Lagos to Calabar — Presidency Maimane said in the statement that he would retain his role as the DA’s parliamentary leader until the end of the year but then announced on Thursday morning that he was also leaving parliament. “I have today resigned from the DA and parliament,” he wrote on Twitter. “I have worked tirelessly to build the project of One SA for All. It’s been my greatest honour to serve the people of SA and will continue to do so.” The DA, the ruling African National Congress’s (ANC) main challenger, took 20 percent of votes in elections earlier this year, down from 22 percent during the previous elections in 2014. Source: NAN Vanguard News South Africa's main opposition party the Democratic Alliance on Sunday elected Mmusi Maimane as its first black leader, a major step in its efforts to challenge the ruling African National Congress. May 10, 2015 In "News" Members of South Africa's opposition Democratic Alliance voted Sunday at a congress expected to elect the party's first black leader in what has been billed as a watershed moment for the mostly white party. May 10, 2015 In "News" The opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) on Wednesday called for the dissolution of the South African parliament and a national election to be held, one day after its no-confidence motion in President Jacob Zuma was defeated. August 9, 2017 In "News"