Former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Professor Charles Soludo, Tuesday said that for Nigerian economy to thrive, the country needs to be aggressive in innovation and competitiveness. Soludo who is currently a member of the Economic Advisory Council, gave reasons why the country’s economy records poorly, despite efforts by the current administration to boost it. Notable points from Nigeria’s President, Buhari Independence Day Speech(Opens in a new browser tab) Speaking at a summit organised by Platform Nigeria, a vision of Poju Oyemade, the senior pastor of Covenant Christian Centre, Lagos, the renowned Professor of Economics opined that the game of the future is “innovate, compete or die.” He said Nigeria needs to start preparing for a world without oil, which calls for innovations in diverse aspects of the economy. “We need to start preparing for 400 million people that will soon be upon us in a world without oil. We have been living on the life support of oil, when oil goes up, the economy goes up and when oil comes down, the economy comes down.” Stop using Boko Haram as excuse to embezzle public funds, Group cautions politicians(Opens in a new browser tab) He said Nigeria needs to be committed to equipping its people and youth with technology. “The misery that will befall us is to continue to churn out millions of semi-illiterates youth and largely unemployed citizens,” he warned. Vanguard ABUJA — The Federal Government, yesterday, accused the former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo, of poor managerial ability, saying he was largely responsible for the N5.67 trillion contingent liabilities of distressed banks, bought up by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria, AMCON, to save the… January 29, 2015 In "News" WKA— FORMER Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Professor Charles Soludo said yesterday that the current economic recession in the country was a big eye opener for Nigerians, advising the nation’s leaders to begin to think of Nigeria without oil. May 19, 2017 In "News" PRESIDENTIAL Campaign Organisation, PCO of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Monday described former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Professor Charles Soludo as a confused Nigerian and one who has lost touch with reality. January 26, 2015 In "Elections 2015"