The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 23, 2019 election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has described Wednesday’s dismissal of the appeal he filed at the election petition tribunal by the Supreme Court as part of the democratic challenges being faced by the nation. Atiku stated this in a statement he personally signed in Abuja, made available to journalists on Wednesday. “The judgement is part of democratic challenges we must face as a nation. It is said that the Supreme Court is not final because it is infallible, but that it is infallible because it is final. While I believe that only God is infallible everywhere, and only Nigerians are infallible in our democracy, I must accept that the judicial route I chose to take, as a Democrat, has come to a conclusion. “Whether justice was done, is left to the Nigerian people to decide. As a democrat, I fought a good fight for the Nigerian people. I will keep on fighting for Nigeria and for democracy, and also for justice. I thank all Nigerians who have stayed the course since the commencement of trial in the petition on the February 23 Presidential election,” the statement read in part. Continuing, the former Vice President said “the Nigerian judiciary, just like every estate of our realm, has been sabotaged and undermined by an over-reaching and dictatorial cabal, who has undone almost all the democratic progress the Peoples Democratic Party and its administrations nurtured for sixteen years, up until 2015. “Can Nigeria continue like this? Recently, former United States Assistant Secretary of State for Africa, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, averred that Nigeria had rolled back the democratic gains she made in 2015. When democracy is rolled back, the economy, the society and the judiciary will not be far behind. Today, the nail has been put on the coffin and the gains we collectively made since 1999 are evaporating, and a requiem is at hand. “In a democracy, you need a strong judiciary, a free press and an impartial electoral umpire. Nigeria has none of those three elements as at today. One man, one woman, one youth, one vote, should be the only way to make gains in a democracy. And when that is thwarted, the clock starts to tick. Two and a half millennia ago, Sophocles said “If we are to keep our democracy, there must be one commandment: “Thou shalt not ration justice.” Nigeria will do well to observe this warning.” He also fired a warning to those who are likely to jubilate over his fate saying he’s too focused to be distracted. “To those who think they have broken my spirit, I am sorry to disappoint you. I am too focused on Nigeria to think about myself. I gave up that luxury twenty years ago. The question is not if I am broken. The question is if Nigeria is whole? “This is not a time for too many words. It will suffice for me to remind Nigeria of this – we are an independent nation and we are the architects of our fate. If we do not build a free Nigeria, we may end up destroying her, and God forbid that that should be the case. I was a democrat, I am a democrat, and I will always continue to be a democrat. May God bless Nigeria!” Vanguard Atiku Abubakar, presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has employed the services of a United States lobbyist firm to advance his challenge of the outcome of the February 23 presidential poll. April 10, 2019 In "News" The Presidential election Tribunal is to deliver judgment on September 11, in a petition filed by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar against President Buhari Muhammadu Buhari. September 10, 2019 In "News" The Presidency on Friday described the reaction of former Vice President and Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar in the February 23 election on the Supreme Court judgment on Osun governorship election as ridiculous, and comical. July 5, 2019 In "News"