The Nigerian Airforce said last night that it is investigating an alleged altercation between its personnel and some persons in Sokoto state which led to the alleged death of two persons. A statement by Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, Director, NAF Public Relations and Information said, “An online report has alleged the unfortunate killing of 2 persons at Mabera Area of Sokoto Metropolis on Sunday, 20 October 2019, as a result of a fracas between Nigerian Air Force (NAF) personnel and suspected Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) youths within the Community. NAF commences training of new batch of special forces(Opens in a new browser tab) “However, details regarding the unfortunate incident, which also led to some NAF personnel sustaining serious injuries, are still sketchy. ” Consequently, the NAF is investigating the matter with a view to ascertaining the facts as well as establishing the degree of involvement of its personnel. ” It is pertinent to reiterate that the NAF is a highly disciplined and professional force that does not tolerate or condone acts of indiscipline or violations of human rights of citizens. ” Therefore, every NAF personnel found guilty of misdemeanor, in the past, had always been dealt with in accordance extant laws and the general public duly informed. “We wish to assure the general public that, in line with the NAF’s usual practice, this case will be investigated thoroughly and appropriate action taken. “The public will be kept informed on the outcome of the investigation.”  Authorities of the Nigerian Airforce have directed that an airman, who was at the center of the fracas that erupted on 24th May 2017 at Ipetu Ijesha between students of the University of Osun and personnel of the Airforce, should face appropriate charges. July 20, 2017 In "News" It was a tale of love that went sour between two Nigerian Air Force personnel. March 19, 2017 In "News" Against the backdrop of continued attacks and killings in Taraba State by herdsmen and bandits, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) at the weekend deployed its Special Forces to the newly established 23 Quick Response Wing (QRW), Nguroje in Taraba State. May 13, 2018 In "News"