Following the destruction of various goods and properties owned by businessmen (Women) in Onitsha by Tanker fire last week, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has on Thursday appealed to the vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to take the non interest loan (TraderMoni), initiative targeted at petty traders who require small capital to startup or boost their businesses, to the victims of Onitsha taker fire. Disclosing this in a statement jointly signed by the groups President General, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, and the Secretary General, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, the group said that Federal Government should also direct the Bank of industry and Central Bank of Nigeria to offer soft loans to the Onitsha traders who are in deep agony and distress. The group said that it has written formerly to international economic bodies on the need for timely intervention on the poor State of Onitsha fire victims. Ohanaeze also appealed for humanitarian assistance towards victims and called for more philanthropic gestures from individuals. They said that Nigerians should emulate the gestures of Airpeace Allen Onyeama, to rescue Onitsha traders after the Ontisha Inferno. Similarly, the group through its President General, Isiguzoro appealed for the re-opening of the closed border, noting that though the closure was nice but should be opened before the Xmas festival season. The statement reads thus: “We Commend President Muhammadu Buhari on the closure of the land borders to help local producers and farmers and also addressing the incessant crime committed through our land borders. Southeast Govs, Ohaneze beg Buhari for special intervention fund for Enugu Airport(Opens in a new browser tab) “This development undoubtedly has encouraged the local production of Rice in every parts of Nigeria especially the famous production of Abakilki Ebonyi State Rice. “We call on our neighboring countries to put up strict rules and regulations across the borders to enable the federal Government rescind its decision on Border closure, as no nation closes her borders indefinitely. “We urge the Government to negotiate through its agencies with our neighbouring agencies so to re-open the closed borders before the Xmas festival season. The group cautions on new deadline for re-opening of Enugu Airport Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, said that it has diligently studied the recent explanation of Minister of Aviation Hon. Hadi Sirika before the House of representatives, on the extension of time for the re-opening of Akanu ibiam Int’l Airport Enugu, describing the ministers explanation as a ruse. The group said that Igbo youths would give him the benefit of doubt to prove his sincerity if he relocates in earnest to Enugu to monitor the progress of the rehabilitation of the entire facilities on the Akanu Ibiam Int’l airport, to meet up the international status by all standards which includes, the installation of Night landing facilities to accommodate more international flights that uses night landing facilities which had been missing in the airport for decades now. The statement reads: “We expect the completion of the New terminal building with modern amenities abandoned deliberately after the exit of Former Aviation Minister, Sen Stella Odua, and expansion of the runaways. “We wish to remind Sen Hadi Sirika that we are already on the ground monitoring the situation independently. “We will not tolerate any substandard work as rumored and expect to see him relocate to Enugu earlier so to meet up with the new deadline as any further excuses for further delay beyond 2020 April will not be entertained. “We urge Igbo to exercise patience till the new date of re-opening of the Akanu Ibiam Int’l airport for Easter celebration of April 2020. “We assure Igbo that the palliative care and measures of South East Governors through Engr Chris Okoye’s Committee will ensure tight security throughout the Xmas festival from Sam Mbakwe Int’l Cargo Airport Owerri Imo State to their destinations.” Vanguard Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide has said that it would set aside this weekend  to mourn those who loss their lives and properties in the nightmarish Onitsha Fire incident. October 19, 2019 In "News" A political group in Nigeria says Prince Uche Achi-Okpagha is tarnishing the image and acceptability of apex Igbo socio-political organization, Ohanaeze Ndigbo. December 30, 2018 In "News" AWKA- FOR the third year running, the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, a group of agitators campaigning for the actualisation of Biafra Republic out of Nigeria, ordered the people of the South-East and  South-South geopolitical zones to sit at home to protest perceived injustices against the people of the South-East.… September 19, 2018 In "News"