Iranian beauty queen detained for almost two weeks at an airport in the Philippines on Tuesday pleaded for help, saying she fears for her life. Bahareh Zare Bahari was held after arriving in Manila from Dubai on Oct. 17 based on a request for her arrest by Interpol, the Bureau of Immigration said. She has been held in a room at Ninoy Aquino International Airport’s Terminal 3 since then after she applied for asylum. “Today is 13th day, I’m here without (updates),’’ she tweeted on Tuesday. “The Philippines is not safe for me anymore, I need a safe place to live without constantly fearing for my life.’’ “Please have consideration,’’ she said in another tweet.“I need a safe place to live without stress.’’ Bahari, who represented Iran in the Miss Intercontinental pageant held in Manila in January, has been living in the Philippines since 2014 to study dentistry.’’ The Bureau of Immigration said the 31-year-old beauty queen is wanted for an assault and battery case in Iran, but no other details were available. Bahari denied the allegations, and said the charges aimed to harass her for her political activism. She said she would be facing imprisonment or even death if she is forced to return to Iran. “I would be killed or detained for 25 years for criticizing Iran’s government if they bring me back to Iran,’’ she told ABS-CBN News in Manila. The Department of Foreign Affairs has declined to comment on her case, saying, “Since her application for asylum is being considered, the (department) has no comment on this matter. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Iranian beauty queen detained for almost two weeks at an airport in the Philippines on Tuesday pleaded for help, saying she fears for her life. October 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" Iran, one of the largest oil-producing nation in the world has announced Sunday it has discovered a new oil field in its Khuzestan province. The announcement was made by the country's President, Hassan Rouhani as he revealed the new oil field is capable of producing more than 50 billion barrels… November 11, 2019 In "Foreign" A senior Iranian cleric said on Friday during prayers in Tehran that some of the leaders of the recent protests over fuel price hikes deserved to be given a death sentence. The Iranian cleric, Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami said that “some of the leaders of the unrest were anarchists that deserve… November 22, 2019 In "Foreign"