The United States Department of Defense has awarded a cloud-computing deal to Microsoft after a stiff competition for the deal by Microsoft and Amazon. The deal reported to be worth $10 billion (N3.6 trillion) is tagged Joint Enterprise Defence Infrastructure (Jedi). It is a project by the US Defence to improve its technology prowess. At the start, Amazon was considered the favourite considering its dominance of the cloud-computing market in 2018. Based on revenue generated from Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), Amazon captures about 47.8 per cent of the market share. Although followed by Microsoft, Bill Gate’s technology company only captured 15.5 per cent. There are allegations Amazon is the better company to win the deal and that Microsoft was awarded based on Trump’s intervention. According to a BBC report, Amazon had been considered the front-runner until the United State’s President, Donald J. Trump began questioning whether the process was fair. He reportedly told reporters that he was getting “tremendous complaints about the contract with the Pentagon and Amazon”. Google dropped out of the deal. Amazon, however, has 10 days to contest or forget about challenging Pentagon’s decision even though, according to BBC report, Pentagon claimed all offers “were treated fairly”. Microsoft will provide artificial intelligence-based analysis and host classified military secrets among other services for the US Defence under the contract. Vanguard News Nigeria. Cloud computing is currently making information and communications technology headlines, and vendors are aggressively promoting the many benefits it can provide organizations. These benefits appear so compelling that on the surface it seems all ICTs can and should be moved “into the cloud”. December 12, 2012 In "Technology" The President of Microsoft International, Jean-Philippe Courtois has disclosed that the Devices and Services company, Microsoft has invested $75 million in Nigeria, South Africa, Kenya and other African countries in the areas of access, innovation, skills development, youth empowerment; software development; digital curriculum, skills among others. March 2, 2014 In "Technology" When Bill Gates founded Microsoft 30 years ago, he began with the lofty goal: to put a computer on every desk, in every home. This vision may have been a fantasy to most people at the time, when you couldn’t even buy a PC at the store, and yet today,… June 29, 2011 In "Technology"