BENIN CITY – THE Chairman of Esan West local government area, Hon Patrick Aguinede, has been suspended from office over allegation of corruption. This brings to three the chairmen that have been suspended from in the last three months. The others are Alhaji Aremiyau Aligamhe Momoh of Etsako East and Hon Yakson Musa of Etsako West local government area. Herdsmen killings in Akwa Ibom were cases of misunderstanding ― Aide Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftancy Affairs, Mr. Monday Osaigbovo, said Governor Obaseki has always warned them on his zero tolerance for corrupt practices. Osaigbovo said Aguinede was suspended for a period of two months to allow an investigation into allegations made against him. He said one of the allegations was that an estate agent petitioned Aguinede that he bought a house for him for N30m and Aguinede refused to pay his agency fees. Osaigbovo said Aguinede was alleged not to have remitted complete money collected as Internally Generated Revenue. “The statistics he gave as the number of tricycles and motorcycles operating in Esan West is 3000. If he collected N150 each from them, that amounts to N9m monthly but Aguinede was remitting the only N4.5m. #SexForGrades: Nigerians chide COZA for not reacting like Foursquare “The Governor always warned us that anybody caught would not only be sacked but be prosecuted.” Responding to the suspension, Aguinede said he has accepted it in good faith but said that the issue of buying a house for N30m was not a government matter because he was rich as far back as 1988. He said he would appear before any panel set up to investigate the allegations. Jigawa Approves N2.5bn For Electrification, Township Roads and Other Projects Vanguard THERE is anxiety in Esan West Local Government Area of Edo State, as news filtered in Monday that the Special Assistant to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Political Matters, Mrs Maris Igbons, who was allegedly beaten up last week by officials of the Esan West council, is currently in critical condition… June 18, 2018 In "News" Special Adviser to Edo State Governor on Gender Issues, Ms. Efosa Uyigue, has expressed confidence that the state government’s initiative in re-opening adult education centres across the state will reduce the incidence of girl-child trafficking in the state. April 25, 2019 In "News" THE crisis rocking Edo State All Progressives Congress, APC may have assumed a new dimension as Godwin Obaseki yesterday suspended the Chairman, Etsako West Local government area, Hon Yakson Musa over an alleged N48m salary being paid to ghost workers Oshiomhole is from Etsako West local government area. August 3, 2019 In "News"