Access Bank Plc yesterday, announced the completion of the second phase of its integration, where it has brought together all its core banking platforms. In a statement made available to the journalist, Access bank said that the completion of this phase heralds the delivery of one of the most robust banking platforms in the world that will serve its growing base of over 30 million customers seamlessly and enhance its service delivery and uptime targets. “One of the benefits of the integration is the simplicity of initiating and receiving bank transfers, as customers will no longer need to select between ‘Access’ or ‘Access (Diamond)’ when transacting. Customers simply need to select ‘Access Bank’ for all transactions,” it said. Its Group Managing Director, Herbert Wigwe, praised the efforts pf committees during the period of the integration, saying, “A Special thank you to the integration committee for ensuring all the milestones expected at the various stages of integration were achieved within the scheduled timeframe.” The Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank Plc, Victor Etuokwu, while appreciating the support demonstrated during the integration period added that the Bank is now better positioned than ever to serve its customers with the best solutions and service the industry has to offer. “Delivering the best services possible to our customers remains our highest priority. We can now offer the best digitally-driven financial solutions that will make our customers’ transactions simpler, faster and convenient”. Vanguard Nigeria’s leading retail bank, Access Bank Plc, yesterday announced that it has successfully completed the second phase of its integration, where it has brought together all her core banking platforms onto a new, highly scalable and robust world class platform October 20, 2019 In "News" THE desire for bigger financial strength to expand market share and deliver superior products to a larger consumer base is increasingly driving more companies to mergers and acquisitions (M&As). Between 1980s and 1990s, there were about 3,600 mergers in the US.  In 1996, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) reported… March 4, 2019 In "News" The desire for bigger financial strength in order to expand market share and deliver superior products to a larger consumer base is increasingly driving more companies to mergers and acquisition (M&As). March 1, 2019 In "Economic outlook"