Some irrigation farmers in Damaturu, Yobe, on Tuesday appealed to government to support them with water pumps and other farm inputs to enhance the state agricultural revitalization programme . The farmers made the call in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). Mamudu Sani, a farmer in Damaturu , said floods had adversely affected his farm and would like to make up,the loss through irrigation farming. “I lost substantial part of my farm to the flood, l will go into irrigation immediately after the rainy season. “We need water pumps and seedlings to be fully engaged in dry season irrigation farming to recover from our loss”, he said. Usman Bukar, another farmer, said that he needed support to produce vegetables adding that such produce was more rewarding after the rainy season. On his part, Modu Liman said he intended cultivating  wheat, rice and vegetables, while Abubakar  Saleh, another farmer in Damagum, said the downstream of river Ngeji had enough water suitable for irrigation. Over N30m lost monthly to farm abandonment(Opens in a new browser tab) “The Ngeji wetlands has potentials for irrigation as the volume of water on the Ngeji plains is much  and would keep soil wet for a long time, making the area suitable for irrigation. ‘We have similar wetlands in Ngalda, Gashua, Nguru, Giedam, Muguram and Jakusko, among others, that are suitable, ” Saleh said. Other farmers who spoke to NAN also solicited for the support of the state government to enable engage in dry season farming activities.(NAN) Vanguard The Yobe commissioner for agriculture, Mustapha Gajerima, on Sunday, said anticipated bumper harvest of vegetables from the state, would make vegetables available and affordable in Nigerian markets. October 30, 2016 In "News" Alhaji Mohammed Kaku, the Secretary Gashua Vegetables Farmers Union in Yobe, has warned of an impending scarcity of vegetables because of poor storage facilities in the country. December 9, 2011 In "News" Mixed Reactions have trailed the heavy rain that claimed 12 lives and destroyed property  worth millions of naira in Damaturu. August 4, 2018 In "News"