In line with his pledge to the family of Late Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has released N200 million to the Gberegbe family for the education of the kids of the deceased lecturer. Recall  that Governor Wike announced an N200 million scholarship for the four children of Late Dr Gberegbe,  directing the widow of the deceased to open bank accounts for each of the four children. This pledge was made during the governor’s condolence visit to the family. Dr Ferry Gberegbe,  who was a lecturer at the Ken Saro Wiwa Polytechnic,  Bori was murdered by SARs Personnel at the Bori Governorship Election Collation Centre.  His murder was captured live on Facebook. During the Condolence visit,  Governor Wike said: “The State Government will offer scholarship to the four young children left  behind by the deceased. The Mother of the children should open dedicated account for each of the children.  The State Government will pay N50million to each of the four children for their education”. The Governor has officially released the said funds to the family of the Late Gberegbe. The money is meant for the training of the four children that the former academic left behind. vanguard The Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has described as heartless, callous, the testimony of the Commander of the Federal Anti-Special Robbery Squad, F-SARS, ACP Akin Fakorede, that Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, a lecturer with Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, was not killed by F-SARS operatives but food poisoning. May 9, 2019 In "News" Unidentified bandits have kidnapped Mrs. Leeyira Sinee, a female lecturer in the Department of Computer Science at the Kenule Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State. January 30, 2017 In "News" PORT HAR-COURT— Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State  has called on the Church, non-governmental organisations, NGOs, civil society groups, international observers and embassies to lend their voices and compel the Federal Government and security agencies to allow the will of Rivers People to prevail in elections. August 27, 2018 In "News"