Liverpool’s perfect start to the season continued with a 2-1 win over Leicester City. Klopp’s reds had to wait till the 95th minute to secure their win, recording the maximum 24 points so far.  Leicester City’s fine form under Brendan Rodgers had made this match a much anticipated one, especially after Liverpool’s defending against Red Bull Salzburg during their midweek Champions League clash, where the reds lost a three goal lead. Leicester City traveled to Anfield sitting in 3rd place, a result of the fine job Brendan Rodgers is doing over at the King Power. James Milner released Sadio Mane through on goal in the 40th minute, after a well worked build up from the back, and the in form Senegalese winger scored his 5th league goal of the season. Taking his overall premier league tally to 50 goals in 100 appearances for Liverpool. Despite registering 6 shots on goal , it was ex-manager Brendan Rodgers’s Leicester who scored next, with midfielder James Maddison receiving a pass from Ayoze Perez and scoring in the 80th minute. The game looked destined for a draw until the 93rd minute when Sadio Mane was brought down in the box, and  Liverpool were awarded a penalty after VAR consultation. James Milner continued his fine form from the spot and scored Liverpool’s second in the 95th minute. The results ensures Liverpool maintain a perfect start to the season, with 24 points, with closest rivals Man City 8 points off in second with 18 points, with a game in hand, and Leicester 10 points off in 3rd with 14 points and suprise Burnley 12 points off in 4th with 12 points rounding up the top 4. Sean Dyche’s men recorded their 3rd win of the season with a 1-0 victory over underperformers Everton, who are failing to deliver despite spending over 100m million euros on new signings in the summer. Everton finished the match with 10 men, after fullback Seamus Coleman was sent off in the 56th minute. Burnley would go on to take the lead in the 72nd minute through Jeff Hendricks. Making it Everton’s fifth defeat of the season, with Marco Silva’s men under pressure in 17th place on the log. Meanwhile over at Carrow Road, Aston Villa ran riot over fellow newcomers Norwich City, as the Villans routed Norwich 5-1 away from home. Summer signing Wesley put Villa a goal up in the 14th minute, and the Brazilian doubled the lead in the 30th minute. Winger Jack Grealish made it three in the 49th minute and Hourihane scored Villa’s fourth in the 61st minute. Substitute Douglaz Luiz would go on to compound Norwich’s woes in the 83rd minute, scoring Villa’s fifth goal. Substitute Josip Drmic scored a sole consolation goal for the Canaries in the 87th minute . Watford and Sheffield United played out a goalless draw, at Vicarage road, continuing Watford’s poor start to the season, as the Hornets find themselves in 20th place on the log. In the final match of the day, West Ham’s fine form suffered a blip as they lost 2-1 to Crystal Palace in the London derby. West Ham took the lead through French striker, Sebastian Haller, scored with a left footed shot in the 54th minute for the hammers. Declan Rice conceded a 61st Minute penalty and fullback Van Aanholt had no problem scoring from the spot. Striker Jordan Ayew scored in the 87th minute, after receiving a headed pass from defender Martin Kelly. With Crystal Palace earning 13 points from a possible 18 in the last six matches. The defeat is the first for Manuel Pellegrini’s Hammers in six matches, with West Ham hoping this is just a minor blip in their early season fine form under the Chilean. Tomorrow’s fixtures see Chelsea travel to the Saint Mary’s to face Southampton. With Tammy Abraham hoping to celebrate his England Call up by continuing his fine goal scoring form. Wolves travel to the Etihad to take on Guardiola’s Man City. While Arsenal welcome Bournemouth to the Emirates. As Solksjaer would be hoping Manchester United improve their form when they travel to Saint James Park to take on Newcastle United, on the final day of the Premier League’s Matchday 8. Vanguard News Manchester United open the new Premier League season at home to Tottenham Hotspur on Saturday looking for signs that they are ready to mount a sustained assault on Chelsea's title. August 7, 2015 In "Sports" Manchester City moved to within one win of retaining the Premier League title as captain Vincent Kompany's thunderous strike earned a nervy 1-0 win over Leicester City on Monday. May 6, 2019 In "Sports" Liverpool defeated Stoke city after Philippe Coutinho scored a screamer with less than five minutes to go to give Liverpool the win at Stoke. August 9, 2015 In "Sports"