Russian president, Vladimir Putin has said Russia wrote off $20 billion of African countries’ debts that had accumulated during Soviet times, according to The Moscow Times report. The first-ever Russia-Africa summit was held in Russia between Wednesday (October 23) and Thursday (October 24). This, according to report was to restore Russia’s partnership with Africa continent since the fall of the Soviet Union. During Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari on Monday afternoon departs Abuja with delegates to attend the event along with other African leaders and their delegates. Prior to the President’s departure, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in a statement on Sunday (October 22) said that the Summit would focus on exploring and expanding opportunities in security, trade and investment, science and technology, and gas production. In total, 54 African countries were reported to be represented at the Russia-Africa summit. Lots of memoranda of understanding (MoUs) were signed between African leaders and the Russian president. Support of the construction of 1,400km rail track from Lagos to Calabar NNPC signs MoU with Russian oil company, Lukeoil Amaechi signs MoU on rail modernisation in Sochi Russia The agreement is expected to help boost Russian exports by providing financial assistance for the supply of Russian goods to African countries including Angola, Ethiopia, Mozambique and Zimbabwe, Sberbank said. It is expected to offer financial support and counsel to Russian exporters’ projects in sectors like agricultural products, fertilizers and medical products, it added. “The summit in Sochi is a significant development for Russia’s power projection ambitions on the world stage.” “It also acknowledges Russia as a significant power in Africa, at a time when the US is disengaged from the continent, the EU is divided on how to approach it and China is strengthening its hegemony. This summit marks Russia’s arrival as a continent-wide player.” “But whether or not it is political theatre/PR or a genuine strategic game-changer lies in the economic deals that are actually crystallized from the summit.” “I think what [it] comes down to is Russia exporting sovereignty. … In a nutshell, we are going to sell you cheap weapons, do business deals with you, set up partnerships, all under the umbrella of helping you be strong and independent — and stand up to the West.“ “The difference with the Soviet, ideologically driven approach is that Russia is not hiding its primary driver — self-interest. And is not nearly invested enough to want to impose much. African participants, meanwhile, speak of Russia offering partnerships, not aid.” “Russia’s actions look suspicious to the West because it doesn’t see what’s driving them. But I’m not seeing a hidden cache of motivations here. Sure, Russians talk of doing good. Sure, they want to influence. Who wouldn’t? But this is about selling stuff. They’re not hiding that.” “We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.” “Let me clearly state that the time has come with this historic summit today, for Africa and the Russian Federation to develop new mutually beneficial relations.” “On our part, I want to assure our Russian friends that Africa is resolute and ready. We look forward to embracing the new dawn of Africa-Russia partnership in general, and the revitalized Nigeria-Russia relations in particular.” [Read Full Speech HERE] [Report contribution from: The Moscow Times and Reuters] Vanguard News Nigeria. By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday afternoon left Abuja to attend Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia. The President left Presidential Villa about 1:30 pm and is expected to be in Sochi, Russia for the Summit that is holding between October 23rd – 25th. Recall that the Senior… October 21, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is to depart Abuja on Monday to attend a three-day Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia, between Oct. 23 and Oct. 25. October 20, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is to depart Abuja on Monday to attend a three-day Russia-Africa Summit in Sochi, Russia, between Oct. 23 and Oct. 25. October 20, 2019 In "News"