A Pakistani court is due to hear an appeal to free a doctor accused of helping the US track down al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden. The Peshawar High Court will hear Shakil Afridi’s case on Wednesday, the first time it will be heard in an open court in Pakistan. He was never formally charged for his role in the 2011 operation to hunt down and kill the world’s most-wanted man, according to BBC report. Dr Afridi has always argued that he was denied a fair trial. His imprisonment caused outrage and saw the US cut federal aid to Pakistan by $33m (£27m) – $1m for every year of his jail sentence. US President Donald Trump promised in his 2016 election campaign that he would get Dr Afridi released in “two minutes” if elected – but that never happened. ⤕BBNaija winner, Mercy Eke becomes Innoson brand ambassador ⤕Italy reduces number of MPs, Senators ‘to save €1bn in a decade’ While the doctor is considered a hero in the US, in Pakistan he is seen by many as a traitor who brought humiliation to the country. US Navy Seals had been able to fly in, kill the 9/11 attacks mastermind and get away with his body without even being challenged, far less stopped, BBC reported. And it raised uncomfortable questions about whether Pakistan’s military, which runs its security policy, was aware Bin Laden was in the country. Pakistan remains an uneasy partner to this day in the US-led fight against militant Islam. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Pakistani doctor who helped the CIA track and kill Osama bin Laden has been moved by authorities from a prison in the country's northwest to an unknown safer location, an official and family member said Friday. April 27, 2018 In "News" Pakistan's interior minister has launched a blistering assault on "ignorant" Donald Trump after the Republican presidential frontrunner vowed to free the doctor who helped track down Osama bin Laden if he wins office. May 3, 2016 In "News" The lawyer of a Pakistani doctor who helped the CIA find Osama bin Laden Saturday said he was withdrawing from the case after receiving threats against his life from militant groups. May 10, 2014 In "News"