Foreign nationals from Rwanda, DR Congo, Burundi, and Bangladesh sleep outside the UNHCR office in South Africa pleading for protection from xenophobic attacks. They also attributed their safety’s threat to high levels of crime. “Hundreds of people, originally from Rwanda, DR Congo, Burundi and Bangladesh, sleep outside the UNHCR office in Cape Town.” AFP reported. Hundreds of people, originally from Rwanda, DR Congo, Burundi and Bangladesh, sleep outside the UNHCR @Refugees office in Cape Town. They are asking #UNHCR for help as they say they are not safe in South Africa, due to high levels of crime as well as xenophobia Rodger Bosch pic.twitter.com/gIEMstvDbR — AFP news agency (@AFP) October 10, 2019  The United Nations High Commission for Refugees is mandated to lead and coordinate international action to protect refugees and resolve refugee problems worldwide. Its primary purpose is to safeguard the rights and well-being of refugees. However, South African news site, IOL, reported that the refugees from Burundi, Congo, Malawi, Ethiopia and Somalia said since xenophobic attacks took place the refugees’ commission has kept quiet on refugee problems. The group said since the attacks on foreign nationals women and children have been physically abused, and several of their businesses burnt down. They demanded that they are protected from xenophobic attacks. The commission must also look into female violence, asylum and refugee permit statuses, protection from the South African Police Service, safety for their children and their education as well as the unemployment rate because they do not have official documents. ⤕I’ve zero tolerance for corruption, forward petition against erring judges ―CJN ⤕Man makes love to 4 daughters, blames God The group’s spokesperson Anitha Nkozimana questioned why in other countries it was easy to obtain asylum-seeking documents or refugee permits but in South Africa it was difficult to obtain documents. “As the violence against foreign nationals [xenophobic attacks] continue our only hope is the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. We are being attacked and everyone is silent on how we as refugees could be assisted. The police are also not of any help. “We are questioning why in other countries the commission is active when it comes to refugee problems but here they are silent.” The group handed their memorandum to a protection associate. Vanguard News Nigeria. The United Nations High Commission for Refugees, UNHCR, yesterday in Abuja said Nigeria had more than 17,000 asylum-seekers in Chad, Cameroon and Niger. November 15, 2013 In "News" President Cyril Ramaphosa of South Africa, yesterday, dispatched three special envoys to Nigeria and six other African countries to deliver messages of pan-African unity and solidarity, following xenophobic attacks in South Africa. September 16, 2019 In "News" Countries neighbouring South Africa on Friday prepared to evacuate their citizens from South Africa as the UN raised the alarm over deadly xenophobic attacks which have displaced thousands. April 18, 2015 In "News"