Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi has sworn in a newly appointed commissioner, Adamu Manu, the Acting Head of Civil Service Ahmed Ma’aji and several other appointees. Speaking at the occasion held in Bauchi on Wednesday, the governor described the swearing-in of the appointees as part of his administration’s collective resolve to build viable machinery of government capable of meeting the challenges of repositioning the state. The governor said in order to consolidate and improve on his administration’s achievements, the administration would refocus, rededicate and redirect the resources so as to achieve the set objectives. He pointed out that civil service is the veritable machinery for the execution of government programmes while he observed that the sector needs to be dynamic and keep pace with time and modernity. The governor who charged his appointees to shun corruption urged them to embrace the principles of equity, fairness, and justice in the discharge of their duties. “I urge you all (members of the State Executive Committee) to shun corruption and waste of resources. embrace discipline, hard work, loyalty as you work towards addressing the needs of our people. “The special advisers are the main thrust of my administration. They must work to improve the standard of living of people especially the rural dwellers who constitute the majority. As for the permanent secretaries, they must live above board and lead by example in their behavior and conduct and cooperate and work for hand in hand with their chief executives,” he said. Those who also made the list include; Isa Babayo Tilde, Special Adviser Hajj Affairs, Baffa Haruna Disina, Special Adviser, Political Affairs, Brig. Gen. Marcus Kokko Yake, Special Adviser, Security, while Zainab Rufa’i was appointed as Special Adviser on Domestic NGOs and Community Development. Meanwhile, Usman Kawu, Mohammed Abdulkadir, Abubakar Abdu, Bako Mohammed, and Saleh Kafi were appointed as permanent secretaries. vanguard Governor Mohammed Abubakar of Bauchi State yesterday swore in 15 new commissioners and other members of the state executive council with a warning that he will not hesitate to remove any cabinet member that is found wanting in the discharge of his or her official duty. January 26, 2016 In "News" By Charles Agwam, Bauchi Bauchi Command of the Nigeria Police Force said it has arrested suspected impostor of Governor Bala Mohammed and two other alleged impostors who claimed to be personal assistants of the governor. Parading the suspects at the Bauchi Command on Monday, the Bauchi Commissioner of Police, Habu… September 30, 2019 In "News" By Charles Agwam Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed has constituted a 17-man committee to investigate the alleged salary payment of ghost workers in the state. The Senior Special Assistant on Media to the governor, Muktar Gidado who disclosed this while addressing newsmen in Bauchi on Monday, said Senator Adamu Gumba… October 29, 2019 In "News"