A magnitude 6.4 earthquake struck the southern Philippines on Wednesday, killing at least one child and injuring more than two dozen other people. Government authorities were starting to receive reports from field officials on the island of Mindanao where the earthquake struck, opening cracks in buildings and homes, sending residents running from shops and offices and knocking power out. “Our hospital chief reported that a child died because of the earthquake,” Reuel Limbungan, mayor of Tulunan town in North Cotabato province, told the DZMM radio station. Two more people were injured, he added, according to Reuters. The earthquake also shook Davao City, the hometown of President Rodrigo Duterte and among the most populous cities in the country. In Magsaysay town, in the nearby province of Davao del Sur, Philippines 20 people were injured by falling debris and home furniture, Anthony Allada, the municipality’s information officer, told DZMM. “Many houses were totally damaged… Another person is in a critical condition,” Allada said. The municipality of M’lang, in Cotabato province, reported three injuries, Vice Mayor Joselito Pinol told DZMM radio. The United States Geological Survey said the quake struck 69 km (43 miles) north-northwest of the city of General Santos, Mindanao at 7:39 p.m. (1137 GMT). The epicentre was about 80 km southwest of central Davao. “We felt a very strong jolt and there was a blackout. I saw people rushing down. We were panicking, heading to the exit,” said Naru Guarda Cabaddu, a hotel consultant visiting Kidapawan City, between the epicentre of the quake and Davao. The Philippines is on the geologically active Pacific Ring of Fire and experiences frequent earthquakes. ⤖Manchester City star, Sergio Aguero involved in auto accident on way to training ⤖Tax fraud case almost made me leave Barcelona ― Messi “I was driving back home when I felt a very powerful shake. I stopped and saw people and patients running out of the hospital,” Raprap Rafael, a resident of Kidapawan City, told Reuters. “I’m not sleeping at my home tonight.” Renato Solidum, head of the Philippines seismic agency, told the ANC news channel there was a chance of aftershocks, which could be strong and capable of causing severe damage. “Aftershocks can happen. Some can be felt most likely in low intensities. But we cannot remove the possibility of similar intensities that can be felt in the epicentral area,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. More than 200 people were killed and hundreds more injured when a 7.3-magnitude earthquake shook the mountainous Iran-Iraq border triggering landslides that hindered rescue efforts, officials said Monday. November 13, 2017 In "News" 6.1-magnitude earthquake jolted parts of the South Asian region from Kabul to New Delhi on Wednesday, killing a child in Pakistan and forcing thousands of people to flee their homes in panic, officials said. January 31, 2018 In "News" A strong 6.0-magnitude earthquake struck western Iran near the border with Iraq early Sunday, killing two people and injuring more than 250, officials said. August 26, 2018 In "News"