Nigeria’s Foreign Affairs Minister, Geoffrey Onyeama is on a two-day working visit to Namibia to discus strengthening bilateral relations and international cooperation between Nigeria and Namibia. Mrs Sarah Sanda, the Special Assistant to the Minister on Media, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja. FCT minister urges Area Council Chairmen to develop satellite towns(Opens in a new browser tab) According to Sanda, the Minister is expected to meet with his counterpart Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Mrs Netumbo Nandi-Ndaitwah, on Monday. She said that both ministers would discuss bilateral, regional and multilateral issues of mutual interest and concern to Nigeria and Namibia. Sanda said that Onyeama on arrival held a meeting with Nigerians living in Namibia and took the opportunity to explain some progranmmes and policies on foreign relations of the Federal Government. Buhari showers encomium on former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo(Opens in a new browser tab) She said that the minister noted that it was heartwarming to note that there is no Nigerian in prison in Namibia. Sanda said that Onyeama was received at the Hosea Kutako International Airport by Mrs Lilian Onoh, Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Namibia, and Amb. Selma Ashipala-Musavyi, Executive Director, Ministry of International Relations and Cooperation, Namibia. (NAN) Vanguard The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, is on a two-day working visit to Namibia to discuss bilateral relations and international cooperation between Nigeria and the Southern African nation.   The Special Assistant to the Minister on Media, Mrs. Sarah Sanda, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday in Abuja.… October 6, 2019 In "News" Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, on Monday stressed the need to strengthen the bilateral relations between Nigeria and Tunisia especially in the areas of trade, economy and technology. March 12, 2018 In "News" The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, has inaugurated the boards of agencies under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. March 8, 2018 In "News"