In-form forward Lautaro Martinez scored a goal but also had a penalty saved as Inter Milan beat Borussia Dortmund 2-0 on Wednesday to record its first victory in this season’s Champions League.  Martinez put Inter in front in the 22nd minute with his fifth goal in his past four matches for Inter. The Argentina international could have doubled his tally late on but his spot-kick was parried by Roman Burki. The penalty was won by 17-year-old Sebastiano Esposito, who had troubled the Dortmund defense since coming off the bench and was brought down by Mats Hummels. As Dortmund pushed for the equalizer it left space at the back, and Antonio Candreva capitalized on that to seal the result for Inter with a minute remaining. That was about as good as it got for Lucien Favre’s Bundesliga outfit, who created little without Marco Reus or Paco Alcacer and with Mario Götze presumably too ill to come off the bench. A front three of Sancho, Julian Brandt and Thorgan Hazard failed to provide any aerial threat or anyone capable of playing with their back to goal. Inter and Dortmund are level on four points in Group F, three behind leader Barcelona after the Catalan side won 2-1 at Slavia Prague. Source: DW.com Vanguard News    Luis Suarez scored two classy goals to inspire Barcelona to a 2-1 comeback win over Inter Milan in the Champions League on Wednesday. The Catalans inflicted a first defeat on Antonio Conte since he took charge of the Italians. Inter, who lead Serie A after winning all six domestic games… October 3, 2019 In "Sports" Romelu Lukaku fired Inter Milan back top of Serie A with the second goal of a 2-0 derby win that extended their perfect start to the season at the expense of city rivals AC Milan. September 21, 2019 In "News" Danny Welbeck's controversial penalty and a Gianluigi Donnarumma howler helped Arsenal beat AC Milan in the Europa League last 16 on Thursday 5-1 on aggregate, while Borussia Dortmund slumped to a shock exit at the hands of Salzburg. March 16, 2018 In "Sports"