THE Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Folasade Adefisayo, yesterday, called for the revamping of the education sector to meet up with 21st-century reality. Adefisayo, represented by Director, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Education, Lagos State, Mrs. Abiola Ayeni, in her keynote address at the AIFA Reading Society Young Writers awards held in Lagos, said: “Education is the bedrock for achieving the Sustainable Development Goal for teaching and learning because the future is now. And it remains the focal point for development as it empowers people to take on the world and change it.” Chairman of the occasion was Professor Enase Okonedo, Dean, Lagos Business School and the President of the Society., who spoke on Repositioning Education in Nigeria for Relevance in the 21st Century, said: “While the quality of life through creativity, productivity, entrepreneurship and advancement in technology are enhanced through education, children need to have access to basic education that entails the continuous use technology to drive innovation and creativity.” Vanguard Atlantic Hall School, Poka-Epe, on Sunday 22nd September, honoured two members of its board, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo and Princess Aderemi Folasade Adebowale, for their recent appointment into the Lagos State Government as Commissioner for Education and Special Adviser on Civic Engagement respectively. September 26, 2019 In "News" Three teachers of Lagos State -Elusaki Iyabo, Ikuseyidunmi Pius and Adeniyi Oluwasegun – have won the 2019 President’s Teachers and Schools Excellence Award (PTSEA). This was disclosed in a statement on Sunday by Mr. Kayode Sutton, the media coordinator Lagos State Ministry of Education in Lagos. According to the statement,… October 6, 2019 In "News" LAGOS—   MANAGEMENT of the Federal Nigeria Society for the Blind, FNSB, has said work is under way to ensure sustainability of the funding of the society and the vocational training centre, VTC, of the society through a commercialisation plan that involves broadening its income streams. June 5, 2019 In "News"