Britain’s Prince Harry is to sue the publishers of Rupert Murdoch’s Sun newspaper and the Daily Mirror over allegations of phone-hacking as he and his wife Meghan step up their battle with the tabloid press. The move by Harry, Duke of Sussex, comes days after he and Meghan took legal action against a different newspaper in response to what he called “bullying” by some sections of the British media. Terrorism: Army bans activities of humanitarian agency in North East(Opens in a new browser tab) Harry was one target in a phone-hacking scandal that rocked Murdoch’s newspaper empire and prompted the closure of his News of the World tabloid in 2011. “Claims have been filed on behalf of The Duke of Sussex at the High Court regarding the illegal interception of voicemail messages,” a spokeswoman for Harry said. She declined to give further details of the claim. A spokeswoman for News Group Newspapers, publisher of The Sun, confirmed that a claim had been issued by Harry. Court documents first reported by website Byline Investigates also show that Harry is targeting Mirror Group Newspapers, owned by Reach PLC, with the legal action. A spokesman for Reach declined to comment. A source familiar with the situation said proceedings have been issued but the publisher was yet to receive legal papers in relation to the case. On Tuesday, Harry said he and Meghan were taking separate legal action against the Mail on Sunday over the publication of a private letter that her lawyers said was unlawful. Nigeria floors P&ID as UK court halts $9.6bn payment(Opens in a new browser tab) In an emotional statement, Harry said the treatment of Meghan by sections of the British press was reminiscent of their approach to his mother Diana, who died in a car crash in 1997 after being followed through the streets of Paris by photographers. (NAN) Vanguard The investigator at the heart of Britain's phone-hacking scandal said Friday he acted on orders from the News of the World, challenging claims by Rupert Murdoch's empire that he was a rogue operator. July 30, 2011 In "News" Global media magnate Rupert Murdoch's son James will return as chairman of British broadcaster Sky, the company said on Friday, nearly four years after he was forced to leave over a phone hacking scandal. January 29, 2016 In "News" Meghan Markle confirmed Thursday that her father will not be present to walk her down the aisle when she marries Prince Harry, in a late announcement hinting at disarray behind Britain's meticulously planned royal wedding. May 17, 2018 In "Entertainment"