NIGER Delta activist, Chief Mike Loyibo, has cautioned the chief security officer and governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki to ensure that those who assaulted the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole are arrested and brought to book. Describing the attack on Oshiomhole as embarrassing and a slight on the part of the governor, Loyibo in a statement, Sunday, asked Obaseki to be up and doing and ensure that the hoodlums are brought to book, saying “how can a former governor be attacked in his own state which is being governed by the ruling party?” According to him, “It is a slight on the part of the governor of the state who is also the chief security officer of the state that the national chairman of his part who is also a former governor of the state will be attacked by some unscrupulous persons under the guise of being political thugs.” Abiodun warns Customs against incessant killings in Ogun He said: “It is a slight on the part of Obaseki that such kind of thing will ever happen and personally, I think this is unwarranted, callous and unacceptable. “I have a very strong conviction that there is more to this and the governor must act fast in ensuring that the culprits are brought to book as political conflicts especially among party members must not be allowed to decline to the level in which violence against lives and properties are employed. “I want to use this opportunity to caution Governor Godwin Obaseki not to be too desperate in his quest in retaining the number one seat in the state as we will not risk the peace that is currently being experienced in the Niger Delta for political battle and we are asking the security agencies to do all within its powers in fishing the perpetrators and bring them to book.” VANGUARD Edo State is one of the states in the country where the politics has always attracted the attention of the nation due to the fact that the players are politically sophisticated. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) ruled in the state during the leadership of late Chief Tony Anenih until November 12,… April 20, 2019 In "News" WHEN Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State posited, last weekend, at the 2019 annual retreat and convention of the Usagbe Club of Nigeria in Abuja that  “there is no rift between the  National Chairman of All Progressives Congress, APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and I, as is being projected by people”,… July 13, 2019 In "News" FEBRUARY 23rd 2019 Presidential and National Assembly election in Edo state was an assessment of the current state of the political structure the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole built for the eight years he was governor of the state. March 3, 2019 In "News"