The Court of Appeal sitting in Makurdi, Benue State, at the weekend reaffirmed the election of a member representing Katsina-Ala/Ukum/Logo constituency in the House of Representatives, Dr. Richard Gbande of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Gbande’s victory in the February 23 election was challenged at the appellate court by Mr. Solomon Wombo of the All Progressives Congress (APC), whose petition was earlier dismissed by the National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Makurdi. Not satisfied with the ruling of the tribunal, the appellants urged the appellate court to set aside the ruling on the grounds that the National Assembly election in the constituency was not credible. They contended that the election was marred by irregularities including over-voting, voter intimidation, inducement of voters and non- compliance with Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) In a unanimous verdict read by Justice J. E. Ekanem, the court dismissed the appeal for lack of merit. The court also agreed with the tribunal that the appellants failed to discharge the burden of proof placed on them but shifted the same to the respondents.  Vanguard  Early July, a Makurdi Federal High Court delivered a ruling which dismissed the suit of the former PDP governorship aspirant at the last general elections, Mr. Terver Kakih, who challenged the victory of Governor Gabriel Suswam, thereby finally halting the over one year sequence of protracted litigation against the election… August 5, 2012 In "Politics" Orders rerun in disputed polling units Peter Duru - Makurdi The National and State Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Makurdi,  Benue State, Monday nullified the election of the Benue State Deputy Speaker Mr Chris Adaji of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Adaji is representing Ohimini State constituency in the… September 23, 2019 In "News" MAKURDI—The Benue State Election Petitions Tribunal sitting in Makurdi, yesterday, nullified the election of the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Mr. Terhemen Tarzoor of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. September 9, 2011 In "News"