CRC Credit Bureau has partnered Nova Credit, the premier cross-border credit reporting agency, to enable Nigerians relocating to the United States of America use their international credit history to apply for credit products. The partnership will enable creditworthy Nigerian newcomers to have access to credit opportunities previously unavailable to them because of a lack of credit history in the U.S. According to a statement by CRC Credit Bureau Limited, “The new service Nova Connect, accesses data from CRC Credit Bureau, to enable Nigerians relocating to the US authorize the translation of their Nigerian credit history into a US, an equivalent credit score in a format familiar to American underwriters. Nigerian newcomers can then apply for financial products including credit cards, loans, and more. CCB to partner NIS in fight against corruption(Opens in a new browser tab) “Credit cards are more popular in the US than in many other countries. The average American has four accounts. Today, only 10 percent of US payments worth $25 or more are paid for in cash. With this new opportunity, immigrants from Nigeria don’t have to start from the scratch, and can start to benefit immediately from the credit history they built in their home country when they immigrate. “By using their international credit history to get a credit card or other products when they arrive, Nigerians can begin to build a US credit score. This opportunity does not benefit those with a poor credit history in Nigeria”, the statement noted. CRC Credit Bureau Limited is a private limited liability company duly incorporated and licensed under the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the purpose of delivering credit bureau services. Vanguard The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, CRC Credit Bureau, Tunde Popoola, has noted that CRC Score is a numerical representation of how risky it is, for lenders and creditors to do business with individuals, adding that it is a three (3) digit number that ranges from 300-850, with 300… August 28, 2019 In "News" Credit score is coming into everyday usage thanks to the proliferation of financial technology (fintech) start-ups such as Carbon (formerly Paylater), Mamamoni and Renmoney that advance micro-credit to customers. This has necessitated the need for quicker assessment of the creditworthiness of potential borrowers. August 20, 2019 In "News" A firm, CRC Credit Bureau, in partnership with Fair Isaac Corporation, FICO, an America company, has developed a unique credit rating system, Score, for Nigerian market that helps lenders make quick and informed credit decisions and for individuals' knowledge of what their credit status is. August 13, 2019 In "Business"