Novak Djokovic needed just 70 minutes to defeat Australian John Millman and win the Japan Open in Tokyo. In his first appearance at the tournament in Tokyo, the Serb has looked supreme all week. And the world No 1 outclassed Millman in a convincing 6-3 6-2 victory. “It is really nice for you to say that. I only have nice words to say to you, your fighting spirit, you as a person off the court and of course on the court as a tennis player. “What you bring out to the court is always with heart and true honest, competitive spirit. Well done for this week. You deserve to be in the final. “This was the first time I participated in Japan, the Rakuten Open. It’s been an amazing week. Not just on the court but off the court. “And I owe great gratitude to the tournament organization. You made me personally and my entire team very comfortable, very welcome. “We felt like at home. We spent an amazing 10 days in Japan. And I can’t wait to be back hopefully for the Olympic Games.” It was also the 10th time in Djokovic’s career that he won the title in his debut appearance at a tournament. The 500 ATP Ranking points, Djokovic is now just 1,460 points behind Rafael Nadal ahead of the Masters 1000 event in Shanghai, which began today. Source: Daily Express Vanguard News Two-time champion Novak Djokovic ended John Millman's fairytale US Open run on Wednesday, beating the 55th-ranked Australian in straight sets to book a semi-final clash with Kei Nishikori. September 6, 2018 In "Sports" .....sets up final with Millman World number one Novak Djokovic eased past Belgian third seed David Goffin 6-3 6-4 at the Japan Open in Tokyo on Saturday to book his place in Sunday’s final against John Millman.   Djokovic beat Goffin in one hour and 29 minutes, extending his head-to-head… October 5, 2019 In "Sports" Top-ranked defending champion Novak Djokovic could face Roger Federer in the semi-finals and Rafael Nadal in the final under the US Open draw unveiled Thursday at Flushing Meadows. August 22, 2019 In "News"