More than 100 persons were reported wounded in an Indian stick-fighting festival. 20 of these the people were reported to have been fatally wounded in the annual festival. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The Banni festival is held in Andhra Pradesh, India, and is organised the day before Dusshera, the last day of a nine-day Hindu festival. Shocking footage shows revellers in Devaragattu, in the Kurnool district, holding long sticks as they move in large crowds. Fires burn in multiple places and shouting and screaming can be heard in the background, DailyMail reported. As one fire is lit, crowds part to make way for a burning object that is flung around in the circular space that has formed. The Banni festival is organised in honour of the Mala Malleswara Swamy temple which is owned and managed by the residents of Neraniki village. Flaming torches and long sticks are used in the festival and people from nearby villages also take part. During the event, people divide themselves into groups of two and fight with each other, while trying to take possession of two deities. ⤖Indian woman gang-raped by nephew, forced to drink acid by ex-husband ⤖Trump Impeachment: Whistleblower prefers to testify in writing, no appearance ―Report Participants believe that either one will bring prosperity to their village, according to DailyMail. Local media reports that 300,000 people, mostly young men, attended the event this year and those injured are said to be receiving hospital treatment. People have died at the controversial festival in previous years and police have since installed CCTV cameras in the village. Several authorities have urged villagers to reconsider holding the festival at all due to its violent reputation. Vanguard News Nigeria. Orurueshi is the day that what we call  Uyaa  (famine) start to disappear because we start having new crops particularly new yams and other crops and we begin to feed very well because scarcity of food starts in our place when new cropping season or cultivation starts August 23, 2017 In "News" SABAGREIA—THE Izon-speaking riverine community, Sabagreia, is situated at a point where River Nun branches out into a major tributary, the Igbedi Creek, in Yenagoa Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. But what attracts other Bayelsans and residents from neighbouring Rivers and Delta states to the waterside locality, formerly known as Bolouseibokrogha,… June 13, 2017 In "Metro" The traditional rulers of the 21 communities that make up Owerri-West Local Government Area of Imo State led the dignitaries, government officials and tourists to the makeshift yam barn located somewhere within the festival arena. July 15, 2019 In "The Arts"