The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says it has created 11 centres for verification of results and other documents of foreign
trained graduates. The information is in a statement by the NYSC Director, Press and Public Relations, Mrs Adenike Adeyemi, on Thursday in Abuja. She stated that the scheme devised new strategies of verifying the certificates and other documents submitted for mobilisation with effect
from 2019 Batch ‘B’ Stream 2 Service Year. She noted that the management of the scheme approved such verification centres across the six geopolitical zones in the country, namely:
Lagos and  Osun for South West;  Rivers and Edo for South South and Enugu, and Abia for South East. Others are Bauchi and Adamawa for North East; Kano and Sokoto for North West and the Federal Capital Territory for North Central. The scheme, therefore, advised foreign trained prospective corps members “to physically present themselves with original copies of their
degree certificates, transcripts and travel documents for verification. “The prospective corps members must have successfully registered on the NYSC portal and chose a Physical Verification Centre. “The verification exercise will start from Oct. 21 to Oct. 26, 2019. “Only those who present themselves for verification will be assigned call-up numbers, and be allowed to participate in the orientation
course.” Adeyemi also stated that from 2020, in-camp verification of documents would no longer be allowed. Meanwhile, the NYSC had so far arrested over 95 corps members for presenting fake certificates during mobilisation. The Director-General of the Corps, Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, disclosed this during the 2019 Batch “C” pre-mobilisation
workshop held in Minna on Wednesday. Vanguard Nigeria News The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says all necessary documents required from prospective corps members both foreign and local graduates must be presented before camp registration for the 2018 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Course. April 16, 2018 In "News" ABUJA —The National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, has extended the usage of biometrics for the clearance of corps members to North Central zone of the country.. October 6, 2017 In "News" The National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) says all necessary documents required from prospective corps members both foreign and local graduates must be presented before camp registration for the 2018 Batch ‘A’ Orientation Course. April 16, 2018 In "News"