The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday said the crowd of people that attended its official flag-off of its governorship campaign in Lokoja, Kogi state capital on Friday, is a resounding declaration by the people to kick out Governor Yahaya Bello out of office on November 16.  The party in a statement signed its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan added that the crowd “is also an unmistaken demonstration of the fact that Kogi remains a home to the PDP, which will further manifest in PDP’s landslide victory at the November 16 election.”  It further added: “The party notes that the earthshaking jubilation and ovation that greeted the PDP candidate, Engr. Musa Wada and his running mate, Hon Sam Aro, established the people’s confidence and preference for the PDP and its candidate, over and above Yahaya Bello, who has failed them on all fronts.  “The PDP has been made aware of the gloom, hopelessness and dejection in the Bello camp, which is depleting by the day, following Engr. Wada’s soaring popularity and acceptability across the voting demography across Kogi state.  “Yahaya Bello is gradually coming to terms with the fact that he will soon found himself standing alone to face his inevitable prize for failure and disdain for the people of Kogi state.  “Governor Bello now knows that the people of Kogi state cannot be intimidated by threats of violence neither can they be bought, enticed or beguiled with filthy offers. They have since made up their minds to repay Bello in his own coin for the pain and anguish he inflicted on them in the last four years and nothing can change this resolve.  “The only thing that is collectively paramount to the people of Kogi state is that Yahaya Bello is voted out to make way for a purposeful, people-oriented and transparent administration under Engr. Wada.”  It further urged the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, and security forces to resist any attempt to make them compromise on the integrity of the electoral process.  Vanguard News ...Cautions APC leaders to steer clear of Kogi funds By Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday, advised commercial banks in the country to be careful in giving loans or any form of credit to Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello, the state would not accept responsibility for… October 22, 2019 In "News" ABUJA- The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has condemned the alleged attack on its Kogi state governorship candidate, Engr. Musa Wada and the killing of innocent Kogi citizen on Saturday by political thugs. October 20, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday,  advised commercial banks in the country to be careful in giving loans or any form of a credit to Kogi state governor, Yahaya Bello, the state would not accept responsibility for such loans at the end of the governor's tenure. October 22, 2019 In "News"