President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Golden Eaglets of Nigeria for a fantastic beginning in the group opening match of ongoing FIFA World Cup Brazil 2019.  Nigeria Under-17 football team opened Brazil 2019 in a bright note with a 4-2 spanking of Hungary, signaling their readiness to win the FIFA Championship for an unprecedented sixth time.  In a message to the team after the spectacular performance on Saturday night, President Buhari praised the boys for the determination to excel which they displayed throughout the match despite the brilliant performance of their opponents.  The President in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu in Abuja said, “It was a wonderful display that I am very proud of. You showed that there is nothing that cannot be achieved with determination and perseverance.  “I have followed your journey leading to your arrival in Brazil for the competition. I have equally noted your determination and confidence throughout your preparations.  “I have no doubt in my mind that you are determined to win the competition for an unparalleled sixth time.”  He assured them of his continuing personal support and that of Nigerians for the entire period of the tournament.  The President also urged the team to continue demonstrating the resilient spirit of the Nigerian, and bring the cup home, adding that he will personally be monitoring their progress in the tournament.  President Buhari equally congratulated the handlers of the team, urging them to be sensitive to the needs of the youngsters in their burning desire to bring victory and honour to their fatherland.  Vanguard News   Five–times champions Nigeria swept past Hungary 4-2 in the opening match of the 2019 FIFA Under-17 World Cup finals in Brazil on Saturday. The Eaglets scored three goals in six second-half minutes, and they were just a reward for their persistence and determination. Just like what happened when both teams… October 27, 2019 In "News" The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has urged the Golden Eaglets to create record for themselves and Nigeria by winning U-17 World Cup title for the fifth time. November 7, 2015 In "Sports" President Buhari has said that the victory of the Golden Eaglets over Mali in the final match of 2015 Under-17 FIFA World Cup tournament in Chile on Sunday clearly indicated the indomitable spirit of Nigerians was still active. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr.… November 9, 2015 In "News"