The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Makurdi zonal office, has arrested three suspects for conspiracy and obtaining money by false pretence to the tune of N7, 107, 540.00. The suspects, Adewuyi A. Adebayo, 31; Osikoya K. Gboyega, 44 and Akintunde Ogunrinde, 4, were arrested on 9 September 2019, following intelligence about their activities, according to a statement by EFCC ALSO READ: Onumah was never arrested, we only interacted with him – DSS They were arrested at different locations in Lagos State and transferred to Makurdi, Benue State. The petitioner alleged that on 18 February 2018, he noticed his MTN line had stopped working as no calls or messages came to his phone and the phone displayed a message saying, ‘invalid SIM card’. He went to the MTN office to lodge a complaint but was told to apply for a welcome back SIM that was not successful as someone else had swapped his SIM card in Abia State. He immediately contacted his account officer at a new generation bank to inform them of the development and to change his alert phone number to another line only to discover that transactions had occurred on his account without his consent. The threshold limit for online transfers on his account had also been increased above five hundred thousand Naira and the sum of Seven million, one hundred and seven thousand, five hundred and forty Naira (N7,107,540.00) removed from his account. Further investigations by the EFCC revealed that the suspects masterminded the alleged fraud. The suspects will soon be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded. Vanguard Soni Daniel Operatives of the  Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC ) have arrested six fraudsters who specialize in defrauding people by using bank details obtained through SIM swaps and Automated Teller Machines (ATM).   The suspects are Urulo Ikenna Henry, an Inspector with the Enugu  State Command of… September 18, 2019 In "News" The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) says it has arrested five suspected internet fraudsters in a sting operation in Uyo, Akwa Ibom. April 3, 2019 In "News" Soni Daniel - Abuja The Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, Sokoto Zonal Office in collaboration with the FBI, recorded a major breakthrough with the arrest of one Emmanuel Adedeji Oluwatosin, who is on the wanted list of the FBI. The EFCC Zonal Head, Abdullahi Lawal, while parading the suspect… September 6, 2019 In "News"