Mercy Eke, was the cynosure of Big Brother Naija season four grand finale on Sunday, as she was crowned the winner of the show. The ever bubbling lady was captured in a video celebrating with her fans and almost forgetting to collect her cheque. Her reaction in the video indicated that she was not expecting to emerge the winner of the show. Watch the video below: The Moment when Mercy dived into the CROWD! Who is the F**king Queen Of Highlight?#BBNaija pic.twitter.com/D8CIRdX2Ga — Uncle Ray (@Raynergy) October 6, 2019  Perri finally meets Mercy…..Oh Mikey…You are a winner in all Ramification. I am happy because I know you are Genuinely Happy. Endorsements re waiting on you. #bbnaija pic.twitter.com/LC7cL0Shss — Jessica (@Jessyprodigy) October 6, 2019  Moral lesson: No matter how hard it gets don’t give up! Keep trying until you WIN! #Mercy #BBNaiija #Bbnaijafinale #bbnaija pic.twitter.com/0pcObR8EBc — CBD Oil Hub (@SpectrumOil) October 6, 2019  Our in law pic.twitter.com/jp5uGVqMFt — African_queen (@nina_forever123) October 6, 2019  Congratulations on emerging the winner of Bbn4: PepperDem!! @real_mercyeke ,You just made history as the first BBN female winner!!Woahhhh!!! You played THE game!! We rode for each other, you were always by my side, my friend, my baby, my confidant!! You’re a queen  pic.twitter.com/R9Q36r4MIF — Ike Onyema (@Iam_IkeOnyema) October 6, 2019  #BBNaija LAMBO pic.twitter.com/C525ACwAjM — Ceejhu (@Ceejhu_X) October 7, 2019  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mercy was crowned winner during the finale on Sunday. The win makes her the first woman to win the Big Brother Naija reality show since inception. Breaking: Elo evicted from Big Brother house(Opens in a new browser tab) Popularly known as ‘Lamborghini’, Mercy was touted as the possible winner for the season by show fans and celebrities alike. The light hearted diva made the top two with her show best friend, Mike Edwards, who emerged first runner up. As winner, Mercy walked home with cash prize worth over 40 million Naira, brand new Innosson SUV, Dubai trip for two and other prizes. Vanguard Nigerians continue to share their thoughts as the light of the fourth season of the Big Brother Naija went off on Sunday. Mercy Eke emerged winner of the season as the show came to an end on its 99th day. Mike Edwards come close at second position out of the… October 7, 2019 In "Entertainment" Diverse reactions have continued to trail the finale of Big  Brother Naija season four. October 7, 2019 In "News" Nigerians continue to share their thoughts like the light of the fourth season of the Big Brother Naija went off on Sunday. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mercy Eke emerged winner of the season as the show came to an end on its 99th day. Mike Edwards come… October 7, 2019 In "Entertainment"