Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has called on privileged Rivers Indigenes to invest their resources in the State,   as a way of developing the state’s economy. Commissioning  Oak Haven Hotels and Suites in Port Harcourt on Tuesday,  Governor Wike said that Rivers people should form the foundation for investments in the state. He said: “So many people easily criticise, but do nothing for the development of the State.  Some make money and invest elsewhere. “Hon Marcus Nleji has done well.  This hotel will create employment and empower the people. It will also generate revenue for the state through taxes”. He said it is not easy to make money and decide to invest it. He said that Hon Nleji left the political terrain over eight years ago and could still muster resources to invest. “Those who love their state will take the business risk and invest in the State.  Those who don’t love the state will give flimsy excuses and resolve to invest. “To encourage this new hotel and other businesses on this street, we shall dualise Woji road. The government will patronise this hotel to ensure it succeeds”, he said. Governor Wike urged the owner of the hotel to allow the management of the hotel to run it professionally.  He said that failure to run the hotel professionally would lead to its collapse. Earlier,  Chairman of the Oak Haven Hotels and Suites,  Hon Marcus Nleji thanked the Rivers State Governor for improving the investment climate of the State through the development of Basic infrastructure. He said prominent Rivers indigenes should prioritise investing in the state before they move to other locations. He said that through the construction of the hotel, he has created employment for 70 persons. He said the facilities of the hotel are of international standard. vanguard Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has declared that the state is becoming safer on a daily basis because of the investments of his administration in the maintenance of security. June 11, 2017 In "News" Rivers people  have  praised Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike for investing massively in the  development of a new security architecture, which they said will improve the security of lives and property across the state. July 27, 2019 In "News" Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has called on Senate President Bukola Saraki to stand firm in defence of the country’s democracy and the rule of law. August 31, 2018 In "News"