The Edo chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC) has suspended its Secretary, Mr Lawrence Okah. Okah’s suspension was contained in a letter signed by Mr Anselm Ojezua, the state Chairman of the party and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Benin on Friday. According to Ojezua, the secretary was suspended, following complaints by members of the party in Oredo Local Government Area where the secretary was a leader. He also explained that the suspension was not a punitive measure, but purely an administrative one to allow the investigation to be carried out into the complaints. “He was just suspended to allow the committee set up to look at the complaints against him. “We have not expelled him and the suspension is not punitive. It is just a normal administrative procedure,” he said. When contacted, Okah confirmed the suspension but said that the state chairman, going by the party’s constitution, had no power to suspend him. Leaders and members of the APC in Ward 7 Oredo have been locked in a fierce supremacy battle over the control of the party structure. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, belongs to the ward. Vanguard …only the party can suspend me Okah By Alemma-Ozioruva  Aliu - Benin City The crisis rocking Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress got messier yesterday as the state chairman of the party, Barr Anselm Ojezua issued a letter of suspension to the state secretary of the party, Lawrence… October 18, 2019 In "News" By Gabriel Enogholase - Benin The crisis rocking the Edo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has as taken a new dimension as the State Secretary of the party, Engr. Lawrence Okah has been suspended from office. Vanguard gathered the letter of suspension of the party’s scribe was… October 18, 2019 In "News" Edo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress, APC, has suspended the state's Vice Chairman (Central) of the party, Chief Henry Okoror, Chief Francis Inegbeneki and four others over alleged attack on the state chairman of the party, Mr Anslem Ojezua. February 8, 2017 In "Politics"