The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) on Saturday killed 10 armed bandits at a forest near Birnin Gwari and Janko Hill in Kaduna State. The NAF said the attack followed a directive by its special operation in the state, codenamed: “Operation Hadarin Daji, OPHD, adding that the air component resumed kinetic operations against camps identified as harboring unrepentant armed bandits. The Force in a statement issued on Sunday morning by its spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola,said: The decision was taken in the wake of the attack on troops’ location at Sunke in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State as well as the increased migration of bandits towards the Birnin Gwari area of Kaduna State.” “The Air Component of Operation Hadarin Daji (OPHD) has neutralized no fewer than 10 armed bandits at forests near Birnin Gwari and Janko Hill in Kaduna State. “The operation was conducted yesterday, 5 October 2019, following the directives by the OPHD Headquarters to resume kinetic operations against camps identified as harbouring unrepentant armed bandits. The decision was taken in the wake of the attack on troops’ location at Sunke in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State as well as the increased migration of bandits towards the Birnin Gwari area of Kaduna State. “The attack on the armed bandits was undertaken when a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) helicopter on an armed reconnaissance mission over the Birnin Gwari general area spotted several bandits at the location and engaged them with its guns killing some of them. Some bandits were similarly tracked to Janko Hill and equally neutralized. ” The objective of the renewed kinetic operations is to ramp up the pressure on the bandits with a view to ensuring the ongoing peace process is not scuttled. “Accordingly, the Air Component OPHD will continue to dominate the general area through armed reconnaissance missions to facilitate a return to normalcy in the Northwest of the Country. All persons involved in armed banditry in the area are therefore strongly advised to renounce violence, surrender to security agencies and hand over their weapons. ”  Vanguard The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says its Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI (OPHD), has neutralised no fewer than 10 bandits at forests near Birnin Gwari and Janko Hill in Kaduna. NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, who disclosed this in a statement on Sunday… October 6, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says its Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI has neutralised no fewer than 20 bandits at a location near Munhaye in Zamfara. July 3, 2019 In "News" The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) says the Air Component of Operation HADARIN DAJI has destroyed bandits’ camp and neutralised dozens of bandits in airstrikes it conducted at Doumbourou Forest in Zamfara. May 26, 2019 In "News"