Airtel Africa Limited is a pan-African telecommunications company with operations in 14 countries across Africa. Airtel Africa is driven by the vision of providing affordable and innovative mobile services to all and is supported in pursuing this vision by its largest shareholder, Bharti Airtel. Its product offerings include 2G, 3G, and 4G wireless voice and data services and mobile commerce through ‘Airtel Money’. Airtel Africa had over 97 million customers across its operations at the end of December 2018 Job role: Officer PO Processing/ Supply Planning and Fulfilment Purpose of the Job : The Supply Planning Officer is responsible for developing an effective and cost-efficient supply plan that ensures optimum/required inventory level for both Network and Commercial items and ensures ordering and delivery are strictly maintained as per plan. The said activities are supported through collaboration with user function, buyers, logistics and Finance, as wells as applying proven supply chain management practices (e.g. S&OP, FIFO, etc.) Requirements Bachelor’s degree in industrial engineering, business, supply chain or other relevant fields. Seniority level: Associate level Employment type: Full-time Job functions:  Management, Supply chain, Product management To apply, click this link https://www.linkedin.com/jobs/view/1490376580/ Source:  linkedin jobs Vanguard News Every major market transformation has a strong base in the effectiveness with which goods and services are exchanged. This could be either from business to customer, business to business, business to business to consumer, etc. Today, more businesses can now penetrate areas with limited business reach, including rural areas through… July 22, 2019 In "Sponsored" Goods rely heavily on several transport modes for movement from one location to another. The third quarter of 2015 Nigerian GDP report by the National Bureau of Statistics provided an insight into the contribution of each of the transport modes, to the share of the transportation and storage sector in… May 28, 2016 In "Business" THE Public Service Staff Development Centre, PSSDC, has continued to fulfill its mandate by honing and sharpening the skills of officers in the Lagos State public service. September 19, 2017 In "Viewpoint"