In celebration of his 19th year as a performer, Sound Sultan will be delivering a brilliant, entertaining and enlightening musical, titled ‘Jungle Story 2’ at Terra Kulture Victoria Island, between the 4th to 6th of October. The Amstel Malta sponsored musical will feature a host of celebrities like; Femi Kuti, Odunlade, Osas Ajibade, Femi Branch, Peruzzi, 2Baba, Dare Art – Alade, Harry Songz, Seyi Shay, Helen Paul, Ninja Band, Jumabee, Crown Troupe, RMD, Basketmouth, Kate Henshaw, Wale Ojo, Jimi Solande, Waje, Praiz, Niniola, Vector, Segun Adefila, Pocco Lee, Lasisi Elenu, Johnny Drille, and many others. To kick off the show on October 4, Amstel Malta will hold its official handover ceremony of the Amstel Malta Box Office donated to Terra Kulture. Speaking on the sponsorship and donation, Brand Manager, Amstel Malta, Akinola Josiah, said, “As a brand, we take pleasure in helping our consumers live their best lives. We do this by creating opportunities where they can enjoy themselves while engaging in activities that they love. The sponsorship of ‘Jungle Story’ and the donation of the Amstel Malta box office is our way of showing commitment to giving our consumers the best of experiences, in theatre.” Speaking on the inspiration for ‘Jungle Story 2’, Sound Sultan said; “The story is about a land that became a jungle because the motherland cast a spell on its people that whoever indulged in corruption would be transformed into an animal. Over the years, it became a full-fledged jungle due to the pervasive corruption acts of its people.” Vanguard Tolulope Abereoje Nigerian musician, Lanre Fasasi (stage name: Sound Sultan) has unveiled details for the second edition of his star-studded broadway-styled musical, tagged Jungle Story 2. The highly anticipated show, which features many of Nigeria’s most prominent actors and musicians, is scheduled to hold from Friday, October 4th to Sunday… September 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" Last Sunday saw Nollywood light up for the star-studded Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards,(AMVCA) with Kunle Afolayan and Rita Dominic emerging big winners of the night. But while most people’s predictions came true, the night was one of panache, glamour and surprise. March 13, 2015 In "Entertainment" Over 6,000 wannabee Nollywood stars have so far registered for the 2009 edition of the very popular Amstel Malta Box Office, AMBO. The reality TV programme, sponsored by Amstel Malta, the low sugar malt drink for men and women of class was launched last week with a call for entry… October 23, 2009 In "News"