IMMEDIATE Past Deputy President of the Senate and Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment, Senator Ike Ekweremadu has called on all the agencies under the Federal Ministry of Environment to cooperate with the National Assembly to ensure early defence and approval of the 2020 budget. Ekweremadu who spoke in Abuja during an interactive session with Departments, Agencies and Parastatals and stakeholders in the environment sector, said, “The parliament has given Mr President and Nigerians their words on early approval of the 2020 budget. Let me, therefore, urge the Honourable Ministers, Chief Executives of the Agencies, and key stakeholders to be adequately prepared for interactive sessions on the budget proposal to enable the National Assembly to pass it early.” Ekweremadu who described the environment as life itself, however, regretted that Nigeria was not measuring up to the required standards to guarantee a safe and sustainable environment, just as he charged the Ministry and its agencies to work harder to mitigate the huge environmental challenges in the country. He said, “There is enormous work to be done. Whether it is the 2018 Environmental Performance Index, where Nigeria ranked a lowly 100th place or other environmental ratings, the figures are not looking good for us as a nation. “The Senate has mandated us to deal with matters relating to control of air pollution, industrial waste, control of toxic and hazardous waste, dumping by industrialised nations, control of water pollution, environmental sanitation, control of desertification, erosion control, oil spillage control and management, maritime resources management, conservation, and indeed laying policy on clean environment for Nigeria. ”So, we will not stop at dissecting and approving your budget estimates. We will also keep you on your toes through our oversight functions. We will work with you to ensure substantial improvement in budget performance, which has remained perennially low with adverse effects on economic growth and quality of life. But we will also accord you every necessary legislative support to succeed”, Ekweremadu added. The former Deputy President of the Senate assured of the Committee’s support towards the Bill for an Act to Establish the Institute of Environmental Practitioners of Nigeria when brought before the Senate. In their various contributions, the Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammad Mahmoud, and heads of various agencies under the Ministry decried poor funding as major setback in the discharge of their mandates. Other stakeholders at the interactive session include State Commissioners of Environment, oil majors, the Nigerian Environmental Society, Non-Governmental Organisations, among others. Vanguard As the President of the Nigerian Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki is currently in Russia at the sidelines of the 137th IPU Assembly, the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, led the senate’s proceeding of Tuesday the 17th October, 2017 where the Red Chamber resolved on several issues including to Call… October 17, 2017 In "News" AS Part of moves to pass the 2017 Appropriation Bill this month, members of the Senate Committee on Appropriations have in the last three days engaged in marathon meetings with the standing Committees rushing to defend their budget proposals of various Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government. April 14, 2017 In "News" The 8th Senate inauguration, Tuesday, June 9, was followed by the election of former Kwara State governor and immediate past Chairman, Senate Committee on Environment and Ecology, Senator Bukola Saraki, APC, Kwara Central, as President of the Senate while the Deputy Senate President of the 7th Senate and senator representing… July 19, 2015 In "News"