Professor Kingsley Moghalu, has on Monday resigned from Young Progressives Party, YPP. The presidential candidate of YPP in the February 23, presidential election, equally proposed for an electoral reform, noting that without electronic voting, Nigeria’s democracy would remain weak. Disclosing this via his twitter handle @MoghaluKingsley, the renowned scholar opined that the country was close to its moment of reckoning, advising that “Electoral reform, voter education for an informed electorate, and constitutional restructuring are the real issues”, the country should deal with. Read his full statement below: “Without electoral reform which includes electronic voting, our democracy will remain weak. Let’s fix this before 2023. Please join our non-partisan movement http://tobuildanation.org Partisan politics won’t fix this problem. To this end, I’ve resigned my membership of @YPPNational. NIGERIA @ 59: Three strikes and We are China(Opens in a new browser tab) Nigeria today is approaching its moment of reckoning. We need to focus on solving our problems at their root causes. Electoral reform, voter education for an informed electorate, and constitutional restructuring are the real issues. If we can agree on these, all else can follow. “If we fix our elections /give our democracy real meaning, our youth will have no excuses not to vote, while they spend their money to vote on @BBNaija! “Young people should lead the charge for electoral reform. With nearly 70% of Nigeria’s population, Nigeria’s future is young.” Details later: Vanguardngr.com     FORMER Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, and Presidential aspirant of the Young Progressives Party, YPP, Kingsley Moghalu, has rejected the emergence of Fela Durotoye of the Alliance for a New Nigeria (ANN), as the consensus presidential candidate of the umbrella platform, Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT).… August 31, 2018 In "News" presidential candidate of the Youth Progressive Party, YPP, Professor Kingsley Moghalu has said the party’s votes were “stolen, suppressed and diverted on February 23. April 4, 2019 In "News" The Young Progressives Party, YPP, Wednesday, rejected the results of the just-concluded Presidential Election, while it accused the major political parties of electoral malpractices. February 27, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates"