Arsenal captain Granit Xhaka appeared to swear at the Emirates crowd when he was booed off during ugly scenes midway through the Gunners’ extraordinary 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace. Despite Arsenal being denied an apparent late winning goal by a controversial VAR intervention, the dominant post-match talking point was an unpleasant flashpoint between the Gunners skipper and the home crowd. When asked if Xhaka would remain captain, Arsenal boss Unai Emery pointedly replied: “Now is not the time to talk about that.” Already a divisive figure among the Arsenal support, Xhaka’s withdrawal was initially cheered by supporters within the Emirates. The midfielder responded by waving his arms at the crowd, cupping his ears towards them and, according to some reports, seemingly mouthing an obscenity. Xhaka then rejected a handshake from his manager, Emery, took off his shirt and stalked down the tunnel. “He was wrong,” Emery said after the game. “We need to stay calm and speak to him internally about that. “We are working with the club and the players to play under pressure. “We are going to speak with Xhaka because the reaction was wrong. We are here because we have supporters. We work for them and need to have respect for them when they are applauding us and criticizing us.” Source: Sky Sports Vanguard News Arsenal will meet with captain Granit Xhaka in the next few days to discuss his angry reaction to being substituted during Sunday’s 2-2 home draw with Crystal Palace. Xhaka is due to return to training on Tuesday ahead of Arsenal's Carabao Cup fourth-round tie against Liverpool, live on Sky Sports on Wednesday.… October 28, 2019 In "Sports" Granit Xhaka has been stripped of the Arsenal captaincy, manager Unai Emery has confirmed, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang taking over the armband. Xhaka, who was named the Gunners' permanent skipper in late September, succeeded Laurent Koscielny in the role. But he has increasingly come under fire from supporters with abuse aimed at his conduct… November 6, 2019 In "Sports" Granit Xhaka has said he is not ready to return for Arsenal in Saturday's Premier League trip to Leicester City, head coach Unai Emery has confirmed. The midfielder has not featured for the Gunners since being stripped of the captaincy after his outburst towards fans during the 2-2 draw… November 9, 2019 In "Sports"