As part of a micro-grant initiative programme aimed at poverty amelioration through economic empowerment of women, the Aliko Dangote Foundation has reiterated its readiness to empower additional 106,000 women across four states in Northern Nigeria, with a sum of N1.1 billion before the end of 2019. This initiative is in continuation of its micro-grant programme aimed at poverty amelioration through economic empowerment of women. The Foundation has already commenced the identification of eligible beneficiaries, towards the implementation of the programme across these states and will be actively targeting and empowering 23,000 women in Sokoto, 34,000 women in Katsina, 21,000 women in Kebbi and 28,000 women in Zamfara. The Dangote Micro-Grant scheme which was launched in 2011 in Kano State is an N10 Billion project, targeting indigenous and vulnerable women nationwide and is being systematically rolled out nationwide to cover 774 Local Government Areas in the country. So far, 334,500 women and youths have benefited from the programme across Kano, Jigawa, Kogi, Adamawa, Borno, Yobe, Lagos, Nasarawa and the Niger States. The scheme provides recipients with a one-time, un-conditional N10,000.00 cash grant to meet immediate household consumption and economic needs. As far as possible, participants also receive training tailored to bolster their income-generating activities which are critical for the welfare of millions of Nigerians. Beneficiaries of this programme are evenly selected from the target communities with primary consideration for vulnerable women, food distressed household with infant or children under-five-year-old, disabled, divorcee, widow with multiple dependents, extremely poor residents in these communities. It would be recalled that the Programme is implemented in partnership with the States Government to complement their economic empowerment and poverty reduction drive across the country. The Executive Governor of a benefiting state set up a committee to oversee the implementation of the programme alongside Aliko Dangote Foundation in the state. From 2016, the Foundation automated the beneficiary enrollment and payment processes. Also, in addition to the cash grants, beneficiaries were also given mobile phones and SIM cards by the Foundation. In the last two states, the scheme was implemented, the Foundation partnered with a leading commercial bank to open bank accounts and provide ATM card for each beneficiary. Vanguard Dangote group of company has empowered 13, 000 vulnerable women with N13m across the 13 local government areas of Nasarawa state. May 30, 2018 In "News" Africa’s richest man and Chairman of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, has said that he would like to be known as the biggest philanthropist on the continent. May 30, 2018 In "Just Human" Studies show that when women are supported and empowered, all of society benefits. Their families are healtheir, more children go to school, agricultural productivity improves and incomes increase. July 27, 2013 In "Business"