Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, to urgently provide information on the total amount of money paid to contractors from the $460 million loan obtained in 2010 from China to fund the apparently failed Abuja Closed-Circuit Television, CCTV. In a letter based on the strength of Freedom of Information, FoI, SERAP added that the Federal Government has continued to re-pay loan for the contract. SERAP, Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, in a statement on Sunday, urged Ahmed to “disclose specific details of local contractors, if any, that have received funds from the loan for the CCTV contract, reportedly awarded to China’s ZTE Corporation, as well as the implementation status of the project.” SERAP also sought: “[the] disclosure of details of repayment for other Chinese loans for allegedly failed projects between 1999–2015, the status of any such projects, and details of local and Chinese contractors involved in the projects. “We urge you to clarify if the N1.5 billion paid in 2010 for another apparently failed contract to construct the headquarters of the Code of Conduct Bureau is part of another Chinese loan.” The FoI request dated 25 October 2019 and signed by SERAP reads: “We are concerned that Nigerians are being made to pay for the Chinese loans for apparently failed projects, and for which they have not benefited in any way, shape or form. Transparency in the spending of Chinese loans is good for everyone, as this would help to increase the effectiveness, legitimacy, and contribution of the loans to the development of public goods and services, and the general public interests.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Scio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has sent a Freedom of Information (FoI) request to Mrs Zainab Ahmed, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, asking her to “urgently provide information on the total amount of money paid to contractors from the $460 million loan obtained in 2010 from China… October 27, 2019 In "News" The Federal High Court sitting in Lagos, in a landmark judgment, has ordered the “immediate release of details of payments to all defaulting and allegedly corrupt electricity contractors and companies by the governments of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, former President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, former President Goodluck Jonathan, and the government… July 7, 2019 In "News" The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola SAN has forwarded to Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) documents from some of the Ministry’s agencies providing some level of details regarding the names of contractors that allegedly collected money for electricity projects but failed to execute any projects,… May 5, 2019 In "News"