Repair of the Runway for Akanu Ibiam International airport Enugu is yet to begin even after the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, had announced during the weekend that work has begun at the site. When Vanguard visited the airport, on Monday, the airport is still a ghost of itself with a few staff available. All the ticketing points were empty, the same as other agencies that work at the airport. Accessing the runway, it was discovered that there was no sign of any machine or equipment for repair works at any vicinity of the airport. All the airport officials in Enugu declined to comment on the matter and referred Vanguard to FAAN Corporate Affairs Manager in Lagos. A passerby who resides close to the airport said he was disappointed that no work was going on more that one month after the closure of the airport to repair the runway. He said the only thing he saw was forming a base for what he said was a landing facility at the end of the runway, after which nothing else has been done. Chairman of Enugu airport Intervention Committee of Nzuko Umunna, an Igbo Pressure group, Engr. Chris Okoye, however, told Vanguard that the equipment for work might arrive Enugu within the week, noting that he was also aware that no work has commenced at the site. vanguard The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria , FAAN , yesterday, said with effect from  August 24, the runway at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu   will be closed for major repairs on the airfield. August 18, 2019 In "News" No one made a fuss over this delay until the pilot apologised and implied that departure was delayed because the runway was being cleared of pebbles that could damage the plane and endanger the lives of passengers August 25, 2019 In "Aviation" HE Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, yesterday commenced palliative repair work on the runway of Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. This is just as aviation experts are calling on FAAN to carry out complete rehabilitation of the runway like it was done on Abuja runway instead of wasting money… December 15, 2017 In "Aviation"