As different business concerns are upbeat for the Alaghodaro 2019 Summit, the big-ticket players in Edo State’s economy including Presco Plc, Okomu Plc, and Nosak Group, have made strong commitment to throw their weight behind the event. The Alaghodaro Summit, in its third edition, is organized to mark Governor Godwin Obaseki’s third year anniversary and would host the crème of Nigeria’s business community in Edo State from November 8 to 12. It is themed “Delivering to Our People: The Next Level.” In a statement, Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr. Crusoe Osagie, said the summit is being sponsored by the private sector actors in acknowledgment of the progress being recorded in the state. According to him, “We have attracted a lot of businesses in the state in the last three years. At the same time, we have made the state more conducive for a lot of businesses to expand and increase productivity. Some of these people are throwing their full weight behind the Alaghodaro Summit. Some of these players in the local economy include Presco Plc, Okomu Plc, Nosak Group and a long list of others. These companies benefit from reforms in education, investment promotion, infrastructure and energy that we have implemented in the last few years. “We have promoted local enterprise by promoting a strategy that ensures that our people patronize entrepreneurs and businesses in the state and ensure we have a strong and vibrant productive sector. This is evident in what we have at the Utesi corridor, where a lot of production is ongoing.” He added that part of reforms to open the state up for investment include the prioritisation of basic education and primary healthcare, repositioning Ministries, Agencies and Departments (MDAs) to be more private-sector driven and investing in infrastructure to attract investors. “We made the commitment to getting the Benin Airport to begin night operations in partnership with the federal government agencies. This included the purchase and installation of night-landing equipment and supporting relevant agencies to protect and deploy the equipment. This has enabled local players more options in travels and also attracted a major airline to the state.” vanguard As more transnational companies, multilateral organisations and several trade missions swell the numbers and ranks of participants in the maiden edition of Alaghodaro Investment Summit, the Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, was at the London Stock Exchange on Friday to speak to companies listed on the London bourse… October 27, 2017 In "Business" The Local Organising Committee for the 2019 Alaghodaro Summit has assured of an eventful outing to mark the third anniversary of Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki’s first term in office. Special Adviser to the Governor on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, who gave the assurance, said adequate… October 15, 2019 In "News" Barely two weeks to 2019 edition of the Alaghodaro Summit, more local and international players in the business scene have made strong commitments to be at the event, which has become a rallying point for Nigeria’s business community. In a statement, Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Media… October 30, 2019 In "News"