The National Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Yola has dismissed a case filed by All Progressive Congress (APC) challenging the election of Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The tribunal, headed by Justice Adediran Adebara, while giving its judgment on the petition on Friday, declared that the petition was dismissed because it lacked merit. The tribunal chairman said the petitioner also failed to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt. Adebara said the petitioner could not prove the case of over voting and non-compliance as well as irregularities during the March 2019 re-run governorship election. The judge averred that even the witnesses of the petitioner APC were inconsistent in their submissions prompting him to discard their submissions. The Counsel to the Respondent, Mr Leonard Zadon, said the judgment delivered was in order and a victory to law. He said the victory was not only for PDP but “been able to bring law as it is.” The Counsel to the Petitioner (APC), Mr Ibrahim Efiong, said that although their petition was dismissed, they would wait and get the copy of the judgement and study it to determine where to go from there. ⤖LASU operates new era of discipline, rule of law ―Spokesman ⤖Police nab suspected criminals, rescue 9 children in Kano It could be recalled that INEC conducted the Adamawa governorship re-run election on March 28, 2019. The Returning Officer, Prof. Andrew Haruna, declared the result on Friday morning in Yola after the supplementary election in 44 polling units across 14 local government areas of the state. Fintiri polled 376,552 votes to defeat the incumbent Gov. Jibrilla Bindow of the All Progressives Congress who got 336,386 votes. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Governorship Election Tribunal in Adamawa has assured petitioners of fairness and speedy dispensation of Justice. April 26, 2019 In "News" The Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal for Yobe sitting in Abuja on Wednesday upheld the re- election of Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam of Yobe. In a judgment of the tribunal read by Justice Mojisola Dada, the tribunal held that the petitioners - the PDP and its governorship candidate, Waziri Maina - failed… October 21, 2015 In "News" The Justice Hama Bakar-led Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Ekiti State, Wednesday, declared Mr. Segun Oni as the duly-elected governor of the state and subsequently dismissed the petition of the Action Congress, AC, gubernatorial candidate in the 25 April 2009 re-run election, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, as lacking merit. May 5, 2010 In "News"