Shell Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC) says it is prioritising development of its host communities which provide peaceful operational environment for oil and gas exploration in Niger Delta using the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) template. Mr Igo Weli, General Manager, External Relations at SPDC stated this on Wednesday in Yenagoa during the inauguration of completed projects at Tarakiri Cluster Development Cluster in Ekeremor and Sagbama Local Government Areas (LGA) of Bayelsa. Weli said that SPDC had completed 24 projects for N496.9 million in six communities within the Tarakiri cluster. Weli, represented by Mr Evans Krukrubo, External Relations Manager, West Asset, listed Ayamasa, Agbere, Isampou, Ofoni, Agbialama and Egbema in Ekeremo and Sagbama LGAs as the benefiting communities. We’ll link more riverine communities by road — Diri, PDP candidate(Opens in a new browser tab) “Where the environment supports our business and we run our operations without disruptions, SPDC is committed to increasing the Social Investment that we make to host communities and to Nigeria. “A peaceful and enabling environment allows SPDC Joint Venture to put more funding to social investment that benefits all our people. “SPDC has disbursed about N41.1 billion to the 37 active clusters from 2006 till date for community development under the GMoU template,’’ he said. Speaking on behalf of the benefiting communities, Dr Jude Ebibokefie, Chairman of Tarakiri Cluster Development Board, commended SPDC for promptly meeting its funding obligations which facilitated the completion of the projects. He explained that the projects cut across infrastructure, skills acquisition and human capacity empowerment as well as scholarships executed and implemented by the established organs in the GMoU agreement which runs for a five year period. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some 25 women who successfully completed skills acquisition trainings received a startup grant of N41.1 million at the occasion. (NAN) Vanguard A total of N14.86 billion has been invested by the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Ltd, SPDC- operated Joint venture on Global Memorandum of Understanding, GMoU clusters in Rivers State, giving communities a highly-valued opportunity to decide and implement projects and programmes that have a lasting impact on people’s lives. May 21, 2018 In "Energy" Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) on Saturday inaugurated water and electricity projects worth N200 million in different communities across Ukwa West local government area of Abia. October 14, 2017 In "Business" By Jimitota Onoyume Governor  Ifeanyi Okowa  has commissioned  34 projects in Ogulagha kingdom, Burutu Local government of Delta state  executed by Shell Petroleum Development Company and its  joint ventures partners  through  the Global Memorandum of Understanding GMoU of Ogulagha  Kingdom Cluster  Development Board,OKCDB   The 34 completed projects include renovated  Obotobo 1 Community Town Hall, construction of Obotobo 1… October 5, 2019 In "News"