Nigeria and Russia on Thursday in Sochi, Russia, signed an important Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which will enable both countries’ oil giants, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Russia’s Lukeoil to elevate commercial relationship to a government-to-government backed partnership. Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, confirmed this development in a statement in Abuja, He said with signing of the MoU, NNPC and Lukeoil would work together in upstream operations and revamp Nigeria’s refineries. According to him, the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Mele Kyari and Vagit Alekperov, President of leading Russian oil company, Lukeoil, signed the MoU, which entails cooperation in deep offshore exploration of oil in Nigeria, production, trading and refining. He stated that the signing ceremony, which took place on the sidelines of the Russia-Africa Summit, was witnessed by the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva. Earlier in his remarks at a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Lenin, President Muhammadu Buhari said Nigeria was prepared and willing to work with Russian businesses “to improve the efficiency of our oil and gas sector”. He observed that the sector ”provides us with the much-needed capital to invest in our security, infrastructure and economic diversification programmes”. While taking note of the agreement between NNPC and Lukeoil, President Buhari gave an assurance that his administration will “ensure this initiative is implemented within the shortest possible time.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Nigeria and Russia on Thursday in Sochi, Russia, signed an important Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), which will enable both countries’ oil giants, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Russia’s Lukeoil to elevate the commercial relationship to a government-to-government backed partnership. October 24, 2019 In "Business" The Federal Government, yesterday, said it has signed Memoranda of Understandings (MoU) with a number of Chinese firms to invest $50 billion in the Nigerian oil and gas industry, to bridge the infrastructure funding gaps in the industry. June 30, 2016 In "News" Contrary to speculations, Vanguard can confirm that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC, actually expressed the practicability and desirability of the setting up of six modular refineries proposed by the alliance of Petroleum Refining & Strategic Reserve, PRSR Ltd, and Vulcan Capital Corporation, VCC Ltd. September 3, 2012 In "Sweet Crude"