As part of the state government’s plan to reintegrate and resettle Imo indigenes who recently returned from South Africa, as a result of the latest xenophobic attacks, Imo State Governor, Rt. Hon. Emeka Ihedioha CON has set up an inter-ministerial committee to map out strategies for their resettlement. Speaking during the reception of the returnees at the Government House, Owerri, Wednesday, Governor Ihedioha, thanked God for saving their lives despite the casualties recorded during the attack. He reminded them that this is a period for soul searching, saying, “We understand clearly the import of this incident. What the displacement has given rise to, is that you have to start afresh, begin to adjust either to start a new life or otherwise”. He noted that a desk has been set up to articulate an implementable plan that will guarantee a sustainable livelihood for them. He disclosed that the Inter-Ministerial Committee which will be headed by his Special Adviser on Diaspora Affairs, Prof, Chudi Uwazuruike shall comprise of the Ministries of Youths; Labour; Education; Health to be supervised by the Ministry of Gender and Vulnerable Group Affairs, will work out basically how to help them resettle. The Governor noted that the state is doing its best to link up with the Federal Government to ensure that special attention is given to Imo returnees, as the state has fulfilled all the requirements needed by the Diaspora Commission. While thanking the management of Air Peace for their patriotic act of bringing home Nigerians at no cost, he commended the Archbishop of Owerri Ecclesiastical Province, Most Rev. Anthony Obinna for providing succour which has greatly strengthened the returnees since they arrived the state. Appreciating the Governor, on behalf of the returnees, Mr Uche Edih thanked the Governor for his prompt response and fatherly concern, promising that they will put into good use, any assistance offered by the state to them. The highlight of the event was the distribution of food items and stipend to the returnees. Vanguard A social crusader, Charles Nwachukwu, once said: “Truth is a surgery. It hurts but it heals. A lie is like a painkiller. It gives instant relief, but has devastating side effects. The choice is yours. Choose wisely, as you vote wisely.” January 19, 2019 In "News" A cold war is brewing among members of Imo State All Progressives Congress, APC, over who should be favoured with Federal Government’s ministerial slot in the state. June 27, 2019 In "News" ENUGU- A group of Igbo think-thank, Nzuko Umunna, has told Governor Emeka Ihedioha of Imo state that Ndigbo are expecting much from his administration, and that he should not let them down on those expectations. July 6, 2019 In "News"