Sir Emeka Offor, businessman and philanthropist, on Saturday advised his daughter, Njideka, to be obedient and submissive to her husband so as to have a peaceful marriage. Offor gave the advice at Oraifite, in Anambra, during the traditional marriage ceremony between Njideka and Ugochukwu Udu of Amafor, Umuahia North Local Government Area of Abia. Xenophobic attack: Edo Deputy Governor salutes Buhari’s quick response(Opens in a new browser tab) “For you to enjoy a peaceful and happy home, you must not look at where you are coming from. You should remain loyal, obedient and submissive to your husband. “It might not be  very easy at the beginning, but with perseverance, hardwork and firm trust in God, everything will be okay,” Offor told Njideka. He expresed gratitude over the presence of many dignitaries at the ceremony, and prayed God to continue to bless Nigerians and Nigeria. Gov Willie Obiano of Anambra, who also attended the event, prayed God to give the newly married couple the love and understanding to live as one. He also prayed God to bless the couple with the fruit of the womb as well as other good things of life. Senate minority leader, Senator Enyinnaya Alaribe, in his remarks, advised the couple to be patient with one another at the beginning, noting that marriage was not an easy union. Finally, Adele files for divorce from husband, Simon Konecki(Opens in a new browser tab) “Two people from different backgrounds coming together to live as husband and wife wouldn’t be  easy at the beginning, but with love and trust in God, they will conquer the challenges of marriage,” he said. Also speaking, Sen Magnus Abe, immediate past senator for Rivers East, said he attended the event to share in the joy of the Offor’s family. Abe advised the couple to build their lives around God and also have good and trusted friends that would strengthen their relationship. Former Inspector General of Police, Sir Mike Okiro, used the occasion to advise parents to teach their children good morals, noting that such would help build a better Society. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event was attended by Minister of Women Affairs, Mrs. Pauline Tallen, Minister of State Mines, and Steel Development, Uche Ogah, and Sen Ifeanyi Ubah. (NAN) Vanguard Anambra State born oil magnate, Chief Emeka Offor on Sunday warned pickpockets to steer clear of the funeral of his father, Chief Bennett Offor that will hold this week at Oraifite, Anambra State. November 13, 2016 In "News" Determined to ensure that no family in Oraifite, Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State spends money to buy rice during the Christmas and New Year celebrations, the 1,689 widows in Orifite received one bag of rice each from Sir Emeka Offor Foundation, SEOF, during its annual rice distribution to… December 27, 2018 In "News" Sir Emeka Offor’s daughter, Ifeyinwa and her beau Osita had their traditional wedding ceremony recently in Oraifite, Anambra state. It was celebration galore as dignitaries from all walks of life and showbiz stars stormed the magnificent abode of one of the prominent Igbo indigenes in Nigeria. The traditional wedding ceremony… April 22, 2017 In "People"