A team of detectives, led by the Divisional Police Officer, Ikeja Police Station, CSP Gbenga Ogunsaki, has arrested one Miss Deborah Nwachukwu, 23, for stealing a Toyota jeep, cash and items worth N1 million. DSP Bala Elkana, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), said this in a statement released to newsmen on Sunday. According to Elkana, the suspect is an indigene of Abia and resided at No. 19 Irewale Street, Ipade Area, Lagos. He further explained that Nwachukwu stole the Toyota Jeep, two Samsung S10, wrist watch, designer perfume and some cash from one Mr Patrick at MKO Street, off Toyin Street, Ikeja. “Patrick (the complainant) met Nwachukwu at Shoprite in Ikeja selling some cleaning products for a company around the shopping mall where he invited her to help render home service in cleaning his house for him. “They agreed for N20,000 as payment for her service. However, Nwachukwu said that the invitation was not just for cleaning of the house but for sexual reasons. “After the sexual intercourse, she noticed that the complainant was asleep and she quickly took his exotic times, some cash and his Jeep and escaped from the house after locking him up in the room. “The suspect has been charged to court and remanded in correctional custody,” the DSP said. In a related development, Elkana said that Police Patrol Team on routine patrol around Community Road, Akoka, spotted one Mr Binuye Femi, scaling the fence of a student hostel at No. 63 Community Road. He said that Femi committed the act with intention to commit felony. “Investigation is ongoing,” the officer revealed. The DSP also said that one Mr Adekunle Osun, 35, has been arrested for breaking through the ceiling to gain entrance to the residence of one Lolso Ojo at No. 28, Shobande Street, Akoka. “The suspect confessed that he broke through the ceiling in order to steal electronics and money. Investigation is in progress and the suspect will be charged to Court,” Elkana said. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Evelyn Usman A 23-year-old alleged commercial sex worker, who posed as a sales agent, has been arrested for allegedly stealing a Toyota jeep, phones and other valuables from a man who contracted her services. The victim identified simply as Patrick, who resides at Toyin street Ikeja, Lagos disclosed that… October 27, 2019 In "News" The police in Ikorodu, Lagos, on Sunday arrested one  28-year-old man, who allegedly lured an eight-year-old girl with biscuits and defiled her. In a statement in Lagos,   DSP Bala Elkana,  Public Relations Officer of the state police command, said that the alleged crime occurred on Alladi Ijelu Street, Agunfoye, Ikorodu.… April 12, 2020 In "Metro" The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 24-year-old woman, Onyinye Mbadike who was in a viral video on social media, where she allegedly detained a boy in a dog kennel in Lagos. August 15, 2019 In "Crime Alert"