Computer maker, Hewlett Packard,  has released latest and innovative laptop product, HP Envy  in the Nigerian market. Unveiling the products, HP’s Consumer Personal Systems Category Manager for Central Africa, Adeyinka Fakunmoju said that HP’s mission has always been to meet users’ expectations for innovative products through its laptops, especially with the Envy, Spectre, Omen and Pavilion series. He said:  “At HP, we provide PCs that deliver on amazing designs without compromising on quality, our amazing devices are breath-taking, they also give guaranteed hardware power and long-lasting battery life to do more. What we are offering is peace of mind,” he said. We should use modern technology to fight insecurity – Gov. Tambuwal(Opens in a new browser tab) “With the HP Envy, we are bringing the wood design into the market. We are very excited about this. The wood design is unique to every design that you see. The authentic walnut that we use on these designs is unique to each device. The same way your palms don’t have the same prints, there are no two Envy that have the same wood print,” he added. With security becoming more of a concern among today’s device users, Fakunmoju said that HP ramped up the security features in the new Envy device with a privacy switch on the camera as well as camera kill switch. This is in addition to a more secure BIOS, a finger print reader that gives an extra level of security, as well as a Sure View feature which prevents intruders from seeing what the user is working on. With a Fast charge feature that allows for 19 hours’ battery life, the HP Envy can be operated in tent mode, flat mode and full tablet mode. Updated: Fuel tanker explodes in Onitsha, burns over 40 buildings(Opens in a new browser tab) HP’s Trade Marketing Manager, Central Africa, Jenny Ani said that HP strives to provide the right product for customers year on year, she further pointed at HP Products are sold at affordable prices at HP authorised Retail Stores. “Our products come with one year warranty and after sales services nationwide”. Vanguard IT was more of fashion parade than product launch, weekend when Hewlett Packard, Hp unveiled its latest device, the HP Spectre. With the crème de la crème of the Nigerian fashion and design industry present and a runway performance which took several hours, one became a bit confused about what… October 11, 2016 In "News" By Emeka Aginam Chip maker, Intel has kicked off an initiative to educate and bring more accessible and affordable ICT solutions to Nigerians as part of their continued commitment to the economic growth of Nigeria and the improvement of ICT skills in youth and entrepreneurs in the country. To drive… March 15, 2016 In "Technology" In a drive to deliver rich mobile experiences and superior smartphone technology to more Nigerians, mobile communications maker, Lenovo has slashed the prices of its P70 and A5000 smartphones respectively in Nigeria. September 1, 2015 In "Technology"