The Social Democratic Party (SDP) has rejected the disqualification of their candidate, Barr. Natasha Akpoti, for the November 16 Kogi Guber poll and said they will still be featured on the ballot papers. Director-General, Natasha/Khaleed Campaign Organisation, Dr Abdullahi Abdul stated this on Saturday in Lokoja while inaugurating the party campaign committee. Dr Abdul said INEC position in disqualifying their candidate will not stand because the electoral umpire lacks the power to disqualify any candidate. “Our interpersonal and phone conversations in the last few days have been daunted with the question to whether we are contesting in the November 16, governorship election or not. And our answer without prejudice to the matter before a competent arbiter is YES. Kogi Election: I will revive Kogi economy — Natasha, SDP Candidate KOGI CENTRAL 2019: Barr Natasha Akpoti, the dark horse in the race “Our principal has declared [her] interest, went through primary and emerged victorious with her name forwarded to INEC within the time frame stipulated by law and has met all the eligibility criteria for running for the office of governor. “It’s therefore not an issue or any contemplation to be on the ballot box come November 16. “We are however not unmindful of the orchestrated plan to get us out of the ballot box through the back door, but we are strengthened by the copious facts and outcomes of such attempts by INEC on the contrary.” The DG called on the party’s supporters to keep hope alive and said the SDP will provide the right leadership to Kogi people. Vanguard News Nigeria. The gubernatorial candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State, Barr. Natasha Akpoti has vowed to restore the economic story of the state. September 19, 2019 In "News" Ahead of Kogi State Governorship election scheduled for November, a group of women drawn from across Kogi State, particularly Kogi Central Senatorial Districts, yesterday declared their support for Natasha Akpoti. May 30, 2019 In "News" The Social Democratic Party (SDP) supporters have protested an alleged move by the Independent National Electoral Commission  (INEC) to disqualify Mrs Natasha Akpoti, the party’s candidate for Nov.16 Kogi governorship election. The protesters who gathered at the entrance gate of INEC’s headquarters in Abuja on Tuesday alleged that the commission… September 25, 2019 In "News"