Protests against the lifting of fuel subsidies hampered traffic in the Ecuadorian capital, Quito. Local media reported on Friday, one day after 275 people were arrested and 28 police officers were injured in clashes during nationwide protests. The Protesting taxi drivers blocked roads in several parts of the capital, Some of them erected barricades and burned tyres, according to daily El Comercio. Three leaders of the transport sector were arrested, including the president of a taxi drivers’ federation, reported daily El Telegrafo. President Lenin Moreno, on Thursday decreed a state of emergency for 60 days after taxi and bus drivers blocked roads, protesters clashed with police in Quito and shops were looted in Guayaquil. White House accused of cover-up over Trump-Ukraine call ― Whistleblower(Opens in a new browser tab) Interior Minister, Maria Paula Romo, said those detained on Thursday included people engaged in acts of vandalism who had nothing to do with the transport sector. Romo said the government was negotiating with transport entrepreneurs. The lifting of the 40-year-old subsidies on Thursday made some fuel prices more than double. But Romo described their elimination as “a vital measure for the country.” The government says the subsidies distort the economy and that scrapping them will bring savings worth billions of dollars, alongside tax reforms. Ecuador reached a deal worth 4.2 billion dollars with the International Monetary Fund earlier.(NAN) Vanguard Protests over fuel subsidy cuts in Ecuador have halted transport and blocked streets around the country for a second day on Friday as 350 people were jailed for unrest triggered by President Lenin Moreno’s austerity measures. The 66-year-old president has set oil producer Ecuador on a centrist path after years… October 4, 2019 In "Foreign" Security operatives, Monday, stopped a fuel subsidy removal protest by Civil Liberties Organisation in Bayelsa State from holding on the streets of Yenagoa the Bayelsa State capital over fear that it could spiral into violence. January 9, 2012 In "News" FOLLOWING a 72-hour directive issued by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo last Friday, in Lagos to restore order in Apapa and its environs, the Lagos State Government has resolved to set up a Mobile Court within the axis to summarily deal with recalcitrant drivers of articulated vehicles. July 23, 2018 In "Metro"