EU countries have given the go-ahead for more “intensified” Brexit talks to take place, according to BBC report. This comes after a meeting between Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay and EU chief negotiator Michel Barnier, described by both sides as “constructive”. The UK is due to leave the EU at 23:00 GMT on 31 October. A summit next week is seen as the last chance to agree a deal before the Brexit deadline, BBC reported. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson put forward revised proposals for a deal last week, designed to avoid a hard border on the island of Ireland after Brexit. BBC Brussels correspondent Adam Fleming said it was “not clear” how the forthcoming talks were going to be described, but “some form of intensified negotiations” would take place. He added that, although there would be a “measure of confidentiality”, EU states would still be briefed on any developments. Following his “technical” discussion with Mr Barclay in Brussels, Mr Barnier told reporters: “Be patient.” He added: “Brexit is like climbing a mountain. We need vigilance, determination and patience.” Earlier this week, several senior EU figures played down the chances of Brexit happening with a deal agreed to by both sides. But on Thursday, Mr Johnson and Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar held a one-to-one discussion – described by both as “very positive and very promising”. Mr Varadkar said talks were at a “very sensitive stage” but he was now “convinced” the UK wanted a deal, adding: “I do see a pathway towards an agreement in the coming weeks.” ⤖Brexit agreement before October 31 deadline very difficult – Irish PM ⤖Britain says 88% of imports to face no tariffs in event of no-deal Brexit With less than three weeks to go until the Brexit deadline, Mr Johnson continues to insist the UK will leave the EU with or without a deal at the end of the month. That is despite the so-called Benn Act – passed by MPs last month – demanding he request a delay to the Article 50 deadline from the EU until January 2020 if a deal, or a no-deal exit, has not been approved by Parliament before 19 October. Should any new deal be reached between the EU and UK, it will still have to be approved by MPs, as well as the European Parliament. Vanguard News Nigeria. UK and EU negotiators will try again on Monday to make headway on Brexit, while Boris Johnson’s team go into diplomatic overdrive to try and force a compromise from Brussels on the British government’s proposals. The UK’s chief Brexit official David Frost is due in Brussels, while Brexit minister Steve… October 7, 2019 In "Foreign" Boris Johnson's Brexit strategy would collapse under scrutiny, one of his rivals to become Britain's prime minister said ahead of the first televised debate Sunday -- which the front-runner is skipping. June 16, 2019 In "Foreign" After a bruising week, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson entered the warm embrace of his Conservative party's annual conference on Sunday vowing to "get Brexit done". September 29, 2019 In "News"