DELTA State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, said at the weekend that some prospective investors have declared their readiness to commit funds to the Kwale Industrial Park project and relocate to Nigeria. Okowa, who spoke at The Natural Gas and Chemicals International Forum in Nanjing, China, said his trip to the South-East Asian nation was fruitful. The event with the theme – “Nigeria: The Kwale Industrial Park Investment Opportunity,” was attended by investors, consultants, federal government delegation and a delegation from the state. The governor said the industrial park project had been properly positioned before the international investing community, adding that “I have had the privilege of attending these strategic meetings and one of the companies which is a methanol company is ready to relocate to Nigeria. “We had a very useful session, answering most of their questions and also asking them questions which they’ve provided answers to. We are hoping that within the next two weeks there will be communication between them and our team. “The Chairman of the company is also looking forward to being in  Nigeria before the end of November and all things being normal, we hope that by next year, they will be in Delta at the Kwale Industrial Park to begin the process of construction.”  Vanguard  Delta Governor, Sen. (Dr) Ifeanyi Okowa, on Friday said some prospective investors in Kwale Industrial Park in the state, had indicated readiness to commit funds to the project and relocate to Nigeria. October 25, 2019 In "News" By Festus Ahon - Asaba Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, weekend, said some prospective investors has indicated interest in the Kwale Industrial Park, expressing their readiness to commit funds to the project and relocate to Nigeria. Okowa speaking at The Natural Gas and Chemicals International Forum In Nanjing, China,… October 27, 2019 In "News" Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta on Tuesday said the state government was ready to provide 10 million dollars counterpart fund for prospective investors towards the construction of Kwale Industrial Park in the state. October 22, 2019 In "News"