The Islamic State militant group, ISIS, has barely twelve hours of the demise of its former leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, appointed a new leader. Al-Haj Abdullah Qardas, sometimes spelt Karshesh, also known as Hajji Abdullah al-Afari would replace Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who was killed yesterday in the Barisha raid conducted by the Delta Force of the United States Army. Qardash was said to have been appointed as al-Baghdadi’s successor in August 2019 and was in control of the day-to-day running of the organisation. He was earlier a religious preacher in al-Qaeda before joining the Islamic State. According to Newsweek, Qardash has not been publicly endorsed by the group. Though little is known about the former Iraqi military officer who once served under late leader Saddam Hussein, one regional intelligence official asking not to be identified by name or nation told Newsweek that Qardash would have taken over Baghdadi’s role. Trump confirms death of ISIS leader, Baghdadi, in US raid It will be recalled that the Islamic State militant group, ISIS, has barely twelve hours of the demise of its former leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, appointed a new leader. Al-Haj Abdullah Qardas, sometimes spelt Karshesh, also known as Hajji Abdullah al-Afari would replace Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who was killed yesterday in the Barisha raid conducted by the Delta Force of the United States Army. Read more Vanguard United States President Donald Trump has confirmed the killing of fugitive Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi by U.S. special forces in a raid in northwest Syria. Speaking to newsmen at the White House on Sunday morning, Trump said Baghdadi killed himself by detonating his suicide vest during the operation… October 28, 2019 In "Foreign" United States President Donald Trump has confirmed the killing of fugitive Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi by U.S. special forces in a raid in northwest Syria. Speaking to newsmen at the White House on Sunday morning, Trump said Baghdadi killed himself by detonating his suicide vest during the operation… October 27, 2019 In "Foreign" The leader of an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan, who was responsible for a spate of recent bombings that left hundreds of civilians dead, was killed in an American drone strike, U.S. officials told Fox News on Sunday. August 26, 2018 In "News"