GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike has released N200Million to the family of a polytechnic lecturer, Dr Ferry Gberegbe who was shot dead by suspected security operatives during the 2019 governorship election in Rivers state. Gberegbe, lecturer at the Ken Saro Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, Khana Local Government Area, was among People’s Democratic Party (PDP) agents resisting alleged hijack of election materials by a suspected Special Anti Robbery Squad team at the 2019 Governorship Election Collation Centre, Bori, when he was fell by bullets to his bowels which killed him. Wike had, during a condolence visit to the bereaved Gberegbe family, directed wife of the deceased to open an account for each of the four children left behind by Gberegbe into which he promised to release N50Million each for their education. “The Governor has officially released the said funds to the family of the Late Gberegbe. The money is meant for the training of the four children that the former academic left behind”, a statement by Simeon Nwakaodu, Special Assistant, Electronic Media to the Governor affirmed. Vanguard In line with his pledge to the family of Late Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, Rivers State Governor,  Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has released N200 million to the Gberegbe family for the education of the kids of the deceased lecturer. Recall  that Governor Wike announced an N200 million scholarship for the four children… October 21, 2019 In "News" The Rivers State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has described as heartless, callous, the testimony of the Commander of the Federal Anti-Special Robbery Squad, F-SARS, ACP Akin Fakorede, that Dr. Ferry Gberegbe, a lecturer with Ken Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, was not killed by F-SARS operatives but food poisoning. May 9, 2019 In "News" Unidentified bandits have kidnapped Mrs. Leeyira Sinee, a female lecturer in the Department of Computer Science at the Kenule Saro-Wiwa Polytechnic, Bori, Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State. January 30, 2017 In "News"