 Former President Goodluck Jonathan has urged Nigerians to keep faith with the country’s attempts at development by remaining faithful to its growth prospect. Jonathan stated this in a statement he personally signed on Tuesday. The statement read: “59 years ago, we walked into the road of political freedom when the Union Jack was lowered and the Green-White-Green Flag hoisted as the symbol of our sovereignty. Citizens sang for joy, with heartbeats of hope and eyes flooded with a new vision of liberty and justice. “In these past decades, we have lived with the mixed reality of abundance and lack, peace and conflict, hope and despair. Despite the challenges, we have kept faith in the strength of our unity and stood firmly to uphold Nigeria’s honour and glory. It is for this spirit, that we have always emerged stronger in the face of trials. “As we celebrate our 59th independence anniversary, let’s honour the memory of those who committed their lives towards advancing the course of our freedom and wellbeing, which this day signifies. “We should also be inspired by the efforts of our numerous compatriots whose heroism and patriotic endeavours have continued to lift the status of our nation. “No matter the troubles that challenge our glory, we must not despair. Fellow Nigerians, let us strengthen faith in our country and work together towards a prosperous nation. “Happy Independence Day Nigeria.”  Vanguard PRESIDENT Goodluck Jonathan knows about renewed hope. “I bring to you today, a message of renewed hope and faith in the immense possibilities that lie ahead,” he told Nigerians in his 52nd independence anniversary broadcast. October 2, 2012 In "Editorial" Former President Dr. Goodluck Jonathan has sent his warm felicitations to Nigerians on the occasion of the nations 57th Independence anniversary. September 30, 2017 In "News" ABUJA—Immediate past President, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, has denied claims by Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State that his administration spent N64 billion to organize Nigeria’s independence celebrations for three years. October 5, 2015 In "News"