Google says it has built a computer that is capable of solving problems that classical computers practically cannot. According to a report published in the scientific journal Nature, Google’s processor, Sycamore, performed a truly random-number generation in 200 seconds. That same task would take about 10,000 years for a state-of-the-art supercomputer to execute. We are excited to announce the results of our quantum supremacy experiment. Using a fully programmable, 54-qubit processor, called “Sycamore”, we have performed a calculation in 200 seconds that’s infeasible on the fastest supercomputers. Learn more ↓ https://t.co/2qaiPap314 — Google AI (@GoogleAI) October 23, 2019  The achievement marks a major breakthrough in the technology world’s decadeslong quest to use quantum mechanics to solve computational problems. Google CEO Sundar Pichai wrote that the company started exploring the possibility of quantum computing in 2006. In classical computers, bits can store information as either a 0 or a 1 in binary notation. Quantum computers use quantum bits, or qubits, which can be both 0 and 1. According to Google, the Sycamore processor uses 53 qubits, which allows for a drastic increase in speed compared with classical computers. The report acknowledges that the processor’s practical applications are limited. Google says Sycamore can generate truly random numbers without utilizing pseudo-random formulas that classical computers use. Pichai called the success of Sycamore the “hello world” moment of quantum computing. “With this breakthrough we’re now one step closer to applying quantum computing to—for example—design more efficient batteries, create fertilizer using less energy, and figure out what molecules might make effective medicines,” Pichai wrote. IBM has pushed back, saying Google hasn’t achieved supremacy because “ideal simulation of the same task can be performed on a classical system in 2.5 days and with far greater fidelity.” On its blog, IBM further discusses its objections to the term “quantum supremacy.” The authors write that the term is widely misinterpreted. “First because, as we argue above, by its strictest definition the goal has not been met,” IBM’s blog says. “But more fundamentally, because quantum computers will never reign ‘supreme’ over classical computers, but will rather work in concert with them, since each have their unique strengths.” News of Google’s breakthrough has raised concerns among some people, such as presidential hopeful Andrew Yang, who believe quantum computing will render password-encryption useless. Theoretical computer science professor Scott Aaronson refuted these claims on his blog, writing that the technology needed to break cryptosystems does not exist yet. The concept of quantum computers holding an advantage over classical computers has dated back to the early 1980s. In 2012, John Preskill, a professor of theoretical physics at Caltech, coined the term “quantum supremacy.” Source: NPR News Vanguard News  The ability of African continent to sustain economic growth will depend largely on how quickly it can shift attention from traditional commodity markets to modern economic structures that focus on congnitive technology driven development to address local challenges. March 19, 2014 In "Technology" A 3,000-year-old Chinese board game was the focus of a very 21st century showdown Wednesday as South Korean Go grandmaster Lee Se-Dol kicked off his highly anticipated clash with the Google-developed supercomputer, AlphaGo. March 9, 2016 In "Technology" EdoJobs, in collaboration with Google, Cape Town Science Centre, and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO)’s Youth Mobile, has completed training for over 200 Edo youth on computer coding, to advance Governor Godwin Obaseki's tech revolution in the state. October 22, 2018 In "Education"