Goalkeeper Pepe Reina saved an injury-time penalty as AC Milan earned a 2-1 comeback win over fellow strugglers Genoa on Saturday in which both teams finished with 10 men. Reina had made a nightmare start as he deputised for Gianluigi Donnarumma who pulled out sick before kick-off. Spaniard Reina misjudged Dane Lasse Schone’s long-range free-kick allowing Genoa to take the lead just before the break. But Theo Hernandez pulled Milan level after 51 minutes and Franck Kessie added a second from the spot six minutes later, before Reina kept out a Schone penalty four minutes into injury time. Marco Giampaolo’s Milan future had been hanging in the balance after the former European giants hit an 81-year low with just two wins in their opening six games. The last time Milan lost four of their first six games was in the 1938/39 season. Tensions were high in Genoa where the hosts are also in difficulty, with two red cards also handed out to players on the bench. The three points ensured Milan avoided a fourth consecutive defeat and moved up five places to 11th position after seven games. Reina did well to deny Lukas Lerager early, before his blunder which allowed former Ajax midfielder Schone to score his first Genoa goal. ⤕Strinic quits AC Milan after one season blighted by heart scare ⤕Bennacer: AC Milan snap up Algeria’s Africa Cup star Giampaolo made a double substitution after the break with Lucas Paqueta and Rafael Leao both coming off the bench. And the changes paid off with Paqueta setting up Hernandez who made a break down the left to equalise after 51 minutes. Kessie scored the winner from the spot after defender Davide Biraschi received his marching orders for handling in the area to deny Leao. Milan also went a man down when Davide Calabria picked up a second yellow card on 79 minutes, setting up a dramatic finale in which Reina atoned for his earlier mistake. Genoa remain 19th just ahead of Sampdoria who crashed to their sixth defeat in seven games, falling 2-0 at Verona to leave coach Eusebio Di Francesco’s future in doubt. Centre-back Marash Kumbulla headed in after nine minutes with Nicola Murru nodding into his own net to give mid-table Verona just their second win this season. Sampdoria president Massimo Ferrero said the club would now meet to see what course to take. “We’re stunned, the performance today was clear for everyone to see,” said Ferrero. “Tomorrow we’ll see if we can find a solution, what is best for Sampdoria.” Giampaolo guided Sampdoria to a ninth-place finish last season before moving to Milan. Ten-man SPAL beat Parma thanks to Andrea Petagna’s first-half strike in the Emilia-Romagna derby. Gabriel Strefezza set up Petagna before being sent off on 70 minutes for a second yellow card for diving. Antonio Conte’s Inter Milan will play his former club Juventus in this weekend’s top-of-the-table clash at the San Siro on Sunday. Inter have won all six matches this term and hold a two-point lead over the defending champions. Vanguard News Nigeria. Neymar continued on his road to redemption with Paris Saint-Germain fans with another stoppage-time goal, this one sealing an emphatic victory as the French champions romped to a 4-0 win over Angers. Pablo Sarabia opened the scoring for PSG after 13 minutes,with summer signing Mauro Icardi netting his first PSG goal in… October 5, 2019 In "Sports" Marek Hamsik scored his 116th goal in all competitions on Saturday to overtake Diego Maradona as Napoli's all-time record goalscorer and keep the Serie A leaders top for Christmas. December 23, 2017 In "News" Roma battled back for a 3-2 Serie A victory over Genoa to give beleaguered coach Eusebio Di Francesco a lifeline at the Stadio Olimpico on Sunday despite goalkeeper Robin Olsen's early blunder. December 17, 2018 In "News"