The Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has reaffirmed his commitment to transforming the state’s education sector, promising that his administration will continue to make the development of the sector and its stakeholders a priority. The governor, who gave the assurance at a Thank You Mega Rally by the Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Edo State Wing, said he wants to be remembered as the man who transformed the education sector of the state. Recall that Obaseki was selected by the National Executive of the NUT as the best performing governor in Nigeria in recognition of his education reforms and prioritising of teachers’ welfare in the state. The governor said the feats attained in the education sector are in line with the promise made to Nigerians by the All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor said, “What you have seen us do with education in Edo State is the promise our great party, the APC made to Nigerians. That is the promise we in Edo State have decided to keep. We are focused on education in Edo State. We have decided to move Edo from schooling to learning because, in the past, the focus had been on schooling.” According to him, “Nobody was asking in the past what the child was learning from school. This became something we were worried about because everyone complains about the quality of education in Nigeria. “It shows that the students did not learn what they were supposed to learn in kindergarten and primary schools. That is why when I became governor, I said if I do not do anything as governor, one thing I should be remembered for is that I reformed the education sector. Thanks to the people of Edo State for always supporting me in this stride” He continued, “As a minority in Nigeria, what are Edo people known for? They are known for education and hard work, because our school system produced most of the people who are above the age of 50 today. Hence, I believe if we inherited quality education to make us who we are today, then we have no right to deny our children the benefit of the type of education that we received.” The governor said his administration is currently in talks with the World Bank to get assistance in strengthening the Junior Secondary School system in the state. He said the aim was to extend the digital learning system from public primary schools to public Junior Secondary Schools in the state. He explained that his plan was to strengthen the junior secondary school system with vocational studies, so as to provide laboratories and workshops to impart technical skills to the students. Chairman of the Edo State Wing of the NUT, Comrade Pius Okhueleigbe, said the rally was organised to celebrate the tremendous achievement of the Obaseki-led administration in the education sector. He said the achievement included building and renovating schools’ infrastructure, training and retraining of teachers, and improved welfare package for teachers. “In terms of teachers’ welfare, you have done well, as well as in promotion from 2013 to 2015. The momentary arrears have been released and paid to teachers in the state while the final work on 2016 to 2019 promotions are presently ongoing.” Vanguard Nigeria News …Obaseki emerges NUT’s Best Performing Gov Teachers in Edo State have concluded plans for a Mega Rally to celebrate the emergence of Governor Godwin Obaseki as the Nigeria Union Teachers' (NUT) Best Performing Governor for 2019 on account of his transformation of the state’s basic education sector. In a letter… October 4, 2019 In "News" Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki has reiterated the importance of revamping the state's basic education structure to his administration’s developmental policy, assuring that the sector would receive adequate funding. July 4, 2017 In "News" The Edo Gov., Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said that the core of his administration was to revamp the state’s basic education as it was the bedrock of the education sector. July 4, 2017 In "News"