Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has promised to field a candidate for 2023 presidency whose pedigree equals that of Zik of Africa, ‘Owelle Nnamdi Azikwe’. The group assured that the new Zik would see Nigeria as an entity and protect the interest of all Nigerians irrespective of tribe and religion. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Mazi Okechukwu isiguzoro, President General and Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, Secretary General, the group promised to present the New Zik of Africa to the world in 2020. Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, equally condemned the alleged attack on Aba indigenous Communities of Ndiegero in Aba south, by purported officers. The group described the attack as unprofessional, unconstitutional, and a calculated assault aimed at destabilizing the peace of the country. They accused the officers of burning down properties, stealing goods worth millions from innocent and harmless traders in four streets Okojombo, Anaba, Demema and Umuosu in Ndiegero axis, in retaliation for a colleague who was allegedly killed by unknown gunmen suspected to be robber. A Nigeria President of Igbo stock will favour the North… – Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth(Opens in a new browser tab) Part of the statement reads thus; “This is unacceptable to Igbo youths and we’ll never tolerate such lawless act from the police. This is a shameful act perpetrated by officers trained to maintain peace and tranquility. “We Use this opportunity to call on the Inspection General of police to order the redeployment of the Abia State Commissioner of police, who denied knowledge of the act”. They equally warned against reprisal attacks against police officers, advising youths especially those affected to be calm and allow peace to reign in the state. Vanguard Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has on Sunday charged prominent Igbo leaders to unite and ensure the region gets presidency in 2023. September 29, 2019 In "News" With a focus on the 2023 general elections, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, on Thursday called on Igbo to unite and have a thorough discussion on Igbo Presidency. September 26, 2019 In "News" The leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council, Coalition of Igbo groups and Biafra agitators, Friday, started that the recent appointment of Amina Zakari as the head of 2019 INEC Presidential advisory council and Collection unit will not influence the results of the 2019 presidential election in favour of President Muhammadu… January 6, 2019 In "News"