A team of 19 students of  Bells University of Technology Ota, Ogun State,  has developed an application to manage the health system in the institution. The App, Bells Clinic Management System, BCMS,  digitalises the University’s hospital System through a project platform named ‘’Bells/New Horizons TECH HUB.” According to developers, the solution is a digital synchronisation of various modules including: students’ modules, parents/payment dashboard, doctors, pharmacy and drugs inventory, all are seamlessly digitalised. At the commissioning,  the partners said the Tech Hub was established as a partnership between the University and New Horizons-an international IT and E-Business skills and certification training organization. Explaining the Solution, the Team said: “About 35 of us started the development of the project, however when we got to the nitty-gritty of the works and started interfacing and programming with real and massive database, more than half of us dropped by. “This hospital solution is very robust and of very high quality that can be adopted for any hospital, irrespective of its size. Through this solution, all the hospital processes right from patients’ and staff management are all seamlessly digitalised.” One of the team members, a 200 level  Computer Engineering student, Tobenna Umeh  said  the BCMS will radicalise the University’s medical care system in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, speed, cost-saving among others as it concerns general stakeholders. UTME: Group calls for more digital training for students(Opens in a new browser tab) Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Jeremiah Ojediran said the unique thing about the feat is that the team consisted of students from non-computer science disciplines also. He noted that the developed solution and earlier achievements by the University is a testimony that Bells University of Technology is a frontline ICT driven University. Also, MD New Horizons, Mr. Tim Akano charged the students to develop a mentality to be successful  and learn from internationally successful technopreneurs like Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook  among others who started their researches and exploits as young undergraduates. Vanguard VICE CHANCELLOR of Bells University of Technology, Ota, Ogun State, Prof. Oludele Oyediran has said that 28 post graduate and 334 undergraduate students would be graduating at the forthcoming eighth convocation slated for the first week of November. October 27, 2016 In "Education" BELLS University has excelled in the third edition of the annual Information and Communication Development Programme, ICDP, which took place at Redeemer’s University, Redemption City Mowe in Ogun State. December 7, 2011 In "News" The Federal Government has been urged to fund research and sponsor programmes in the area of space research for the benefit of the country. February 7, 2013 In "Education"