Gov. Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa has advised Sen. Cliff Abbo (PDP- Adamawa North) to explore internal party mechanisms to pursue his allegation over manipulation of the recently concluded PDP primaries for the November chairmanship election in the state. Fintiri in a statement Saturday signed by his Director-General, Media and Communications, Mr Solomon Kumangar, urged Abbo and any PDP member with grievance over the primaries and any party matter to express it through due process so as not to create friction in the party. “His Excellency views the senator’s action as unfortunate and takes exception to the insults, innuendos and attack on his person and office. “However, for now, the governor does not intend to join issues with the senator. “Rather, his excellency is in the delicate phase of laying strong bricks for the security, growth, development and prosperity of the people and institutions of Adamawa state and would not want to be distracted. “His excellency hereby calls on distinguish Senator Abbo and indeed all loyal PDP members to explore available intra-party channels to express their grievances in a civilized and democratic manner to engender cohesion and solidarity.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Abbo,  had in a video which went viral, accused the governor of disqualifying all candidates associated with him from participating in the primaries. Vanguard Nigeria News Mr Musa Wada has emerged the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the Nov. 16 governorship election in Kogi State. September 4, 2019 In "News" BARELY Sixteen hours after it disqualified the acting governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri, from contesting the October 11 gubernatorial bye election in Adamawa State, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Sunday, made a U-turn, clearing the Acting governor of Adamawa State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri to contest the State's election. August 31, 2014 In "News" The Senator representing Adamawa North Senatorial Zone, Sen Ishaku Abbo through his official Facebook Handle @Senator Ishaku Abbo – SIA, has sent a condolence message to the Adamawa State Governor, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri over the death of his Father Alhaji Umaru Badami. July 28, 2019 In "News"