The Kogi Elite Movement for Bello/Onoja re-election had predicted a landslide victory for the All Progressive Congress, (APC)  governorship candidate, Alhaji Yahaya Bello and his running mate, Edward Onoja in the November 16 election in the state. Speaking yesterday during a solidarity rally held in Okene, Kogi Central, Chairperson of the group, Arch. Sofiat Umar said the rally was part of several activities mapped out by the group to drum support for the second term ambition of the incumbent Governor. According to her, Governor Bello has impacted on the citizenry through the provision of critical infrastructures, saying that a second term would enable him to consolidate on these past achievements. Pointing out some of the achievements of the governor, Sofiat noted that the governor’s giant stride in the security of lives and property is unparalleled in the history of governance in the state. “As a detribalized leader, governor Bello has ensured even development of the state in the provision of roads, water, qualitative healthcare delivery, intervention in schools.” Other achievements of the governor according to Umar includes; youth and women empowerment, youth inclusion in governance, provision of massive employment through agriculture among others. She urged the people to come out in their numbers on 16 November to cast their votes for the governor and his deputy, saying that “one good term deserves another” Speaking also, Co-chairperson of the group, Mr. Raji Adeiza said, the group had gone round all the zones in the state to canvass support for Governor Yahaya Bello and his running mate Edward Onoja. He assured that the governor will perform better during his second term, saying that all the areas still begging for attention would be touched by the governor in his second tenure. On the issue of anticipated violence during the election, Adeiza said with the peaceful disposition of the governor, the election would be peaceful without any report of violence anywhere across the state. Vanguard News The victories recorded by the APC in the last elections notwithstanding, the incumbent Governor, Yahaya Bello, will be up against history July 11, 2019 In "News" Senator Smart Adeyemi, Director- General, Bello/Onoja Campaign Organisation says that the All Progressives Congress (APC) does not believe in violence and has no thugs. Adeyemi cleared the air during a news conference at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Press Centre, Lokoja on Friday. He debunked insinuations that APC masterminded… October 4, 2019 In "News" WITH Governor Yahaya Bello’s declaration, penultimate week to seek re-election, the political firmament is astir in Kogi State. May 17, 2019 In "News"