Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said on Saturday that his country will carry out military intervention in north-eastern Syria on Saturday and Sunday. “We will carry out this operation both from land and from the air,’’ Erdogan said, referring to the east of Euphrates River in Syria, which is mainly controlled by U.S.-backed Kurdish militia. “We have made our preparations, we have finalized our operation plans, given the necessary instructions,’’ Erdogan told his ruling party members in Ankara. Turkey has been forced to take military action for its own security and so that Syrians displaced by the war can return home as soon as possible, Erdogan said. Turkey says it hosts 3.6 million Syrian refugees. Erdogan previously said Ankara planned to relocate as many as two million Syrians to a 30-kilometer-deep safe zone that would stretch from the east of Euphrates River to the border with Iraq. Turkey already controls areas west of the Euphrates, following two military operations there. NATO allies Turkey and the U.S. have been carrying out joint air and ground patrols along the north-eastern Syrian border with Turkey since the two agreed in August to create a safe zone there. Erdogan has repeatedly warned that if the zone is not established by the end of September, then Turkey will have to implement its own military plans. Turkey was stalled by its strategic ally with fairy tales, Erdogan said of joint patrols, without naming the U.S. It was never clear who would control the zone and how. Source: NAN Vanguard News Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan arrived at the White House on Tuesday for talks with Donald Trump expected to focus on ways to mend ties frayed over Syria and the presence in the US of Erdogan foe Fethullah Gulen. May 16, 2017 In "News" Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Thursday said Ankara and Baghdad would deepen cooperation against terrorism after tensions last month over Turkish air strikes against Kurdish militants in Iraq. January 3, 2019 In "News" Russian President Vladimir Putin snubbed a meeting with Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Paris on Monday as the body of a pilot killed when Ankara downed one of Moscow's warplanes was flown home. Turkish authorities, meanwhile, again pledged not to apologise over last Tuesday's downing of the Russian jet… November 30, 2015 In "News"