The conflict in Mali which was reported a few days ago to have resulted in the killings of at least 25 soldiers and 60 more missing according to AFP news has caused 920 schools listed closed ― robbing displaced children the opportunity of schooling. More than two-thirds of the 920 schools are in the three central regions of the country ― Mopti, Segou and Koulikoro. One school in three has shut down in the Mopti region, which is most affected by raids from jihadists loyal to ethnic Fulani — or Peul — preacher Amadou Koufa. The raids prompt retaliatory violence by self-proclaimed community defence militias, AFP correspondent reported.
Across Mali, 920 schools are listed as closed, more than two-thirds of them in the three central regions — Mopti, Segou and Koulikoro. At the local education authority in Segou, regional director Itous Ag Ahmed Iknan, said he had just been informed of dramatic events in the village of Souba. The previous week, eight jihadists had gone there, where they preached for 50 minutes. “In their preaching, they insisted that schools be closed,” he said. “The army has to come back, so that the zone can be secured, otherwise the schools will not re-open.” – Teacher exodus – French military intervention in 2013 drove jihadist forces out of key northern towns including Timbuktu, Gao and Kidal, and Paris today lends military support to the Malian army and regional troops of the G5 Sahel force set up to counterinsurgents. Jihadist forces have steadily moved into the centre, usually adopting guerilla tactics. Violence by armed groups has also led to school closures in neighbouring Burkina Faso and Niger, according to the UN. The Bamako government and international organisations have responded with lessons by radio, a framework of psychiatric support to help children affected by trauma or post-traumatic stress, and ad-hoc learning centres in villages and camps. For Modibo Galy, a Malian researcher at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands, “in the eyes of the Amadou Koufa group, schools are the incarnation of Western culture, a symbol of the Westerners they are fighting.” “Teachers are civil servants who sometimes come from outside the region,” Galy said. “They may become suspected of passing information to the army, of being spies.” Under this intense pressure, teachers as reported by AFP often quit, one by one, and the school’s lifeblood can drain away. One of the children affected by this development is a nine-year-old girl Oumou Tomboura who would have already had several years of schooling behind her and be able to write, read and count. But in Mali, education is another casualty of the conflict. When the new academic year began last week, Oumou sat not on a classroom bench but on a mat outdoors in the southern-central town of Segou, chopping onions and tomatoes for the next meal. Her family is among tens of thousands to have fled jihadist groups working their way southwards from the desert north to central Mali in a seven-year-old insurgency, battling the army and its allies. Six months ago, Oumou’s mother, Fatouma Dja, 29, left the dangerous village of Mamba, finding refuge for her three children 200 kilometres (125 miles) away. “Of course I would like her to go to school, but it isn’t possible,” Dja said. “When Oumou was old enough to go to school in Mamba, jihadists came and threatened the teachers and the school was closed. So she never went,” Dja said wearily, bearing her youngest child on her back. Renowned for venerable centres of learning and trade down the centuries such as Timbuktu on the southern edge of the Sahara and for a remarkable musical heritage, Mali is badly battered by the revolt. Vanguard News Nigeria. ABUJA- The Parliament of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) is on a fact-finding mission in Mali to resolve a crisis that has displaced over 50,000 in Mopti region alone. July 18, 2019 In "News" Mali's army reinforced security Wednesday around two ethnic Dogon villages where 41 people were killed, according to a UN count, as survivors recounted how attackers from a rival community identified victims one by one before executing them. June 19, 2019 In "Foreign" Five foreigners and several other hostages were freed overnight after they were held by gunmen who raided a hotel in central Mali in an attack that left at least seven people dead, military sources said early Saturday. August 8, 2015 In "News"