Ahead of the November 16 Governorship Elections in Kogi and Bayelsa states, the All Progressives Congress APC has warned voters in both states against voting for the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, saying profligacy and corruption are in the DNA of the erstwhile ruling party. The APC in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu Friday in Abuja particularly noted that recent disclosures by the Finance minister, Zainab Ahmed that the current administration continues to service a $460 million loan taken from China to fund a phony Abuja Closed-Circuit Television CCTV contract is a stark reminder why Nigerians must continue to reject the Peoples Democratic Party PDP at all levels of government. Part of the statement reads; “The fraudulent CCTV contract was awarded in August 2010. “Lest we forget the $16billion spent on power with no electricity; fuel subsidy rackets; counter-insurgency funds that were diverted and shared to political cronies; a phoney gas supply and processing agreement which has left the current administration contesting a $9.6 billion judgment debt, among other corrupt schemes and heists perpetrated by consecutive PDP administrations during its 16 years rule. “The good news is that those dark days of willful waste, procurement/contract frauds and institutionalised corruption are behind us. The President Muhammadu Buhari administration is progressively and aggressively instilling financial discipline, prudence, curbing leakages and ensuring probity in the way government conducts its business. “The execution of the ongoing national infrastructure projects are a sharp departure from the past where contracts were awarded and cash-backed yet poorly executed or not executed at all. Today, Nigerians are getting full value for every kobo released for public works. Our public resources are now being rightly deployed to address our national infrastructure needs, social investments and other initiatives that directly benefit the people. “Governorship elections are forthcoming in Bayelsa and Kogi states. We must not fall prey to the rapacious PDP again. We should be wary of whatever promises PDP is making ahead of the ballots in both Bayelsa and Kogi – a leopard cannot change its spots. Profilgacy and corruption are in the PDP’s DNA. We must continuously strive to elect progressive governments at all levels if we are to achieve the Nigeria of our dreams. “The All Progressives Congress (APC) urges Nigerians to continue its support for the President Buhari administration’s campaign to end profligacy and restore probity, efficiency, and transparency in our national life”. Vanguard National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has dismissed as fake news, reports in the social media regarding its forthcoming governorship election primaries in Kogi and Bayelsa states. May 13, 2019 In "News" The National Working Committee NWC of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC has again shifted its governorship primary election in Bayelsa state from August 31 to September 3 and 4. August 30, 2019 In "News" The All Progressives Congress (APC) has prayed for the safety of its leaders and general progress of the country ahead of the coming elections. February 2, 2019 In "News"