Former Head of State, General Abdulsalam Abubakar, Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki among others have stressed the need for governments across all level to work towards sustaining Nigeria’s democracy by placing human development at the centre of their policies. Abubakar said this during a Pre-Endowment Lecture, entitled “Sustainable Democracy: A Panacea for Development in Nigeria,” delivered at the Ambrose Alli University’s (AAU) 22nd Convocation ceremony, held in Ekpoma, Esan West Local Government Area of Edo State. ALSO READ: Nigerians created rift between Obaseki, I – Oshiomhole On his part, Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, who is the visitor to the university, assured of his administration’s resolve to provide more support and necessary incentives to make the university a veritable fulcrum for national development. The retired General who was represented by Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, said to sustain democracy in Nigeria, governments must focus on ensuring the security of lives and property, putting the citizens first and carrying them along in the democratic process, among others. He added that sustainable democracy is necessary to drive development in the country. Governor Obaseki said as part of the state’s commitment to AAU’s N10 billion endowment fund, the government would provide the university with a 2MW gas-fired power station to provide electricity for the institution, and also lay fibre optic cables for internet service within the university community and its environs. Obaseki added that 5 kilometres of the road will be constructed within the university, noting that construction of the roads would commence during the dry season and would be captured under the Edo Accelerated Roads Project. While commending the University’s Governing Council, Obaseki said: “I am impressed with the progress of work being done by the University’s Governing Council. We will complete the administrative building by the end of the year.” On his part, the President of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote said he intends to contribute to the development of the university on a continuous basis, with a pledge to donate two (male and female) hostels to the university, as his commitment to the N10 billion endowment fund. Earlier, the Vice-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Ignatius Onimawo highlighted the recent academic achievements of the ivory tower, which include 76 completed and ongoing projects within three years and full accreditation of the 64 programmes of the institution. Vanguard Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State has spoken against employment standards in universities, pointing out that universities were not established to create jobs, but to advance learning, promote research, and develop cultured students. July 16, 2017 In "News" The Edo Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, said universities in the country were not established for jobs creation, but to advance learning, promote research and build character of students. July 15, 2017 In "News" Former Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd.) has commended Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, on his sterling developmental strides in the state, and called on Edo people to continue to support the governor and his policies. May 9, 2019 In "News"