The U.S. House of Representatives took a major step in the impeachment effort against U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday when lawmakers approved rules for the next stage of the Democratic-led inquiry into the president’s attempt to have Ukraine investigate a domestic political rival. The Democratic-controlled House voted by 232 to 196 to establish how to hold public hearings in Congress, which could be damaging for Trump ahead of the 2020 presidential election. House Democrats say Trump has abused his office for personal gain and jeopardized national security by asking Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy to investigate Trump’s Democratic political rival Joe Biden, a former U.S. vice president, and his son Hunter, who had served as a director for Ukrainian energy company Burisma. Biden is a leading candidate in the Democratic presidential nomination race to face Trump in the November 2020 election. “It’s a sad day. No one comes to Congress to impeach a president,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said before the vote. Republicans have largely stuck by Trump, blasting the effort as a partisan exercise that has given them little input. “This is Soviet-style rules,” said Representative Steve Scalise, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, as he stood next to a poster depicting the famous onion domes of Moscow’s St. Basil’s Cathedral. The vote largely broke along party lines. Only two Democrats voted against and no Republicans backed it. Trump has denied wrongdoing and called the inquiry a sham. If the House eventually votes to impeach the president, that would set up a trial in the Republican-controlled Senate. Trump would not be removed from office unless votes to convict him by a two-thirds margin. Vanguard News The United States Democratic Party has begun a formal impeachment inquiry into President Donald Trump over allegations that he pressured a foreign power to damage a political rival. Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi said the president "must be held accountable." Mr. Trump has denied wrongdoing and called the efforts a "witch… September 25, 2019 In "News" When the Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi took her place to announce an impeachment investigation into the President, Donald Trump, nearly every Democrat running for president in 2020 and an overwhelming share of her caucus supported the move. Seemingly the tide had turned. After months… September 26, 2019 In "Foreign" Two U.S. State Department officials will testify before House of Representatives investigators in the impeachment inquiry against President Donald Trump on Wednesday while lawmakers prepare to weigh rules formalizing the impeachment process ahead. Ukraine specialists Catherine Croft and Christopher Anderson are set to appear before  House committees a day after… October 30, 2019 In "Foreign"