The mayor of Chile capital city, Santiago has announced that no lesser than 11 people have died as a result of the violent protests in the country. The mayor, Karla Rubilar said about eight of them died on Sunday, making the day the most deadly in the week of demonstrations. Most of these deaths were reported to have been during lootings by the protesters whenever a place like supermarkets was set on fire. The government of Chile announced it will be increasing the public transport ticket price. In response, the citizens took to the street to protest their dissatisfaction. The protesters also took the opportunity to register their discontent at the living costs and inequality in the country. Sunday marked the seventh day of the protest. “We are at war with a powerful enemy, relentless, that does respect anyone or anything,” the Chile President, Sebastian Piñera told reporters. With a state of emergency already in place, schools in the Santiago metropolitan region would remain closed on Monday, Rubilar announced. “We are trying to bring back peace to the people,” said Rubilar, adding, “We received your message, but in order to carry it out we need to dialogue in peace.” Chilean airline LATAM Airlines Group said in a statement it had cancelled over 200 flights between Sunday evening and Monday morning local time, affecting international and domestic flights, according to CNN report. ⤖EFCC arrests 94 suspected internet fraudsters at Osogbo nightclub ⤖10-year-old girl dies after anal sex with 16-year-old boy in Aba Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations’ High Commissioner for Human Rights and two-time Chilean President, on Monday urged the government to work with “all sectors of society to find a solution” which would “address the grievances of the population.” “I also urge all those planning to take part in protests later today and going forward, to do so peacefully,” she said in a statement Monday. “There needs to be open and sincere dialogue by all actors concerned to help resolve this situation, including a profound examination of the wide range of socio-economic issues underlying the current crisis,” Bachelet added. Vanguard News Nigeria. At least three people died in supermarket arson attacks in Chile’s capital Santiago, and soldiers shot two people during an operation to detain looters, authorities said, as protests entered their second week and intensified after a state of emergency was announced.   There was transport deadlock in the city and… October 20, 2019 In "Foreign" Biafra Day anniversary celebration turned bloody, yesterday, in South-East states as soldiers and policemen clashed with pro-Biafra groups. May 31, 2016 In "Headlines" Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa on Friday accused western countries of supporting violent countrywide protests last month that were sparked by a huge rise in fuel prices. February 1, 2019 In "News"