Manchester United have earmarked Julian Nagelsmann as a future Old Trafford manager. Sportsmail has learned United have begun doing their groundwork on RB Leipzig’s highly-rated young boss Nagelsmann. Nagelsmann is just 32 but already on his second top-flight job in Germany and earning admirers at struggling Premier League giants United. While pressure is building on current boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer now, Sportsmail understands United currently have Nagelsmann down as one to watch for further down the line. But the process of gathering information on him is well underway, according to DailyMail report. Nagelsmann eventually turned to coaching after seeing his playing career at Augsburg cut short by injury aged 20. The promise he quickly showed as a coach earned him the nickname ‘Baby Mourinho.’ Nagelsmann became the youngest manager in Bundesliga history when he was appointed by Hoffenheim at 28. He led them from second-bottom to well clear of safety after taking over in February 2016, fourth and into the Champions League for the first time in his first full campaign the following year and then third in 2017-18. ⤕I can do better for Super Eagles, Norway-based James tells Rohr ⤕Brexit agreement before October 31 deadline very difficult – Irish PM Having been knocked out in the play-offs by Liverpool in 2017-18, their third-placed league finish earned Hoffenheim a Champions League group stage place for the first time ever, DailyMail reported. Nagelsmann’s managerial rise continued when he took over at RB Leipzig in June. Leipzig are currently fifth in the Bundesliga, just two points off early-season leaders Borussia Monchengladbach. Nagelsmann is tied to Leipzig until 2023 and United plan to continue doing their due diligence on one of European football’s rising managerial stars as his career develops. Meanwhile, Solskjaer is feeling the heat after overseeing United’s worst start to a season in 30 years. And the Norwegian fears a big defeat in his side’s next outing after the international break at home to Liverpool could leave him facing the chop. Vanguard News Nigeria. Julian Nagelsmann started his RB Leipzig career with a bang as his side hammered Bundesliga new boys Union Berlin 4-0, as the home fans staged a silent 15-minute protest against the visitors. August 18, 2019 In "Sports" Bayern Munich top the Bundesliga for the first time this season after beating ten-man RB Leipzig while Borussia Dortmund slumped again in their morale-sapping thumping at Hanover. October 29, 2017 In "News" Pep Guardiola says his Manchester City side effectively face the first of "five finals" in the Champions League group stages at Hoffenheim on Tuesday following defeat in their opening game. October 1, 2018 In "Sports"