The European Commission has said it needs Britain to put forward “a workable solution now” ahead of next week’s summit of EU leaders with Brexit negotiations at a crucial stage, not “untried and revokable” arrangements at the Irish border. EU leaders need time to prepare for the gathering, commission spokeswoman Mina Andreeva on Monday in Brussels said, after several EU leaders urged London to overhaul the proposal by the end of the week. Britain is due to leave the EU at the end of the month, but there is huge uncertainty over the terms of its exit as London is pushing for last-minute changes to the current withdrawal agreement. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson handed over his idea for an alternative to the backstop – the clause in the exit deal that aims to avoid a hard Irish border – to the EU executive last week. Court orders forfeiture of N280m linked to Invictus Obi(Opens in a new browser tab) But Brussels said the suggestions were unacceptable in their current form, while London insists the EU must now meet it halfway and offer concessions in return. Talks continued on Monday on London’s proposal, with British Brexit negotiator David Frost meeting EU officials in Brussels, though both sides seemed to be digging their heels in. Britain has made a “big important offer but it’s time for the commission to show a willingness to compromise too,” a British source in Brussels said. If not, Britain will leave without a deal, the source added.  (NAN) Vanguard UK and EU negotiators will try again on Monday to make headway on Brexit, while Boris Johnson’s team go into diplomatic overdrive to try and force a compromise from Brussels on the British government’s proposals. The UK’s chief Brexit official David Frost is due in Brussels, while Brexit minister Steve… October 7, 2019 In "Foreign" British Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt, a contender to replace Theresa May as prime minister, said Sunday that German Chancellor Angela Merkel had indicated the EU would be willing to renegotiate the Brexit divorce deal. June 9, 2019 In "News" French President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday backed holding further talks to avoid Britain crashing out of the EU without a deal but rejected major concessions, as he hosted Prime Minister Boris Johnson just over two months ahead of the planned British exit. August 22, 2019 In "Foreign"