To engage Nigerian medical doctors, pharmacists, medical academics and other health sector professionals from the Diaspora, the Ministry Health said on Sunday it needs N234, 620,402 from the 2020 Budget for the purpose. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, stated this while defending the Diaspora-related parts of the budget of the ministry before the House of Representatives Committee on Diaspora Affairs. The Chairman of the Nigeria Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, had conceptualised the framework for the Ministry of Health, to engage Nigerian health professionals resident abroad. The minister while giving a breakdown of the  budget for 2020, told the Committee that N173,020,401 would be used for the “establishment and operationalization of Diaspora Professional Healthcare Initiative, provision of logistics and implementation of Diaspora Professional Healthcare activities.” A total sum of N24million was also listed for “Participation of Federal Ministry of Health’s delegation at the Annual Scientific Sessions and Trainings of the Association of Nigerian Physicians in the Americas (ANPA), National Association of Nigerian Nurses in North America (NANNNA), Medical Association of Nigerian Specialists Across Great Britain(MANSAG), Canadian Association of Nigerian Physicians and Dentists(CANPAD), Nigerian Nurses Charitable Association in the United Kingdom (NNCA-UK), Nigerian Association of Pharmacists and Pharmaceutical Scientists in the Americas (NAPPSA) and International Conferences on Public-Private Partnership for Supportive Capacity Building.”  Vanguard  MINISTER of State, Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire has charged members of the Nigerian Medical Association, NMA, to ensure better working relationship with other health associations within the sector. July 31, 2018 In "News" …The plan is unsustainable and spells doom for the Nigerian health sector - Dr. Francis Faduyile, President, NMA …The plan is unsustainable and spells doom for Nigerian health sector —Dr. Francis Faduyile, President, NMA  …It’s unfortunate and ill-advised —Dr. Saliu Oseni, Chairman Lagos NMA …An absurd paradox —Dr. Casmir Ifeanyi,… October 25, 2019 In "Health" The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire and the Minister of State for Health, Senator Adeleke Mamora, have been tasked to urgently and decisively take steps  towards turning around the fortunes the health sector. even as their  appointment  was described as  putting the “right peg in the right hole”. September 1, 2019 In "Health"