Food is popular online, and social media platform enthusiasts often get tempted by pictures and videos of delicious food prepared by Nigerian amateurs and professionals, says Taiwo Kola-Ogunlade, Google West Africa Spokesman.  In a statement on Friday, the Google official said that food was embedded in the ways that people interacted socially, entertain guests, have business lunch meetings, dinner dates, and celebrate with food. According to him, apart from the health benefits, the memory of a delicious meal could linger as food play an integral part in our lives from our well being to our social norm. He said that the aroma, the colours, the plating and the taste of the food, all worked together to create a lasting experience. ”They share food recipes, food hacks, tips and tricks on how to prepare delicious dishes and information that can help us make better cooking and eating decisions ”We picked five of our favourite YouTube food content creators that you should know about. ”Which are Zeelicious Foods: SisiYemmieTV, Flo Chinyere, Chef Lola’s Kitchen, Naija Food Tube,” Kola-Ogunlade said. He noted that Zeelicious Foods channel is dedicated to teaching people how to make mouth-watering dishes in a fun and creative way while SisiYemmieTV, is popularly known as the Nigerian food channel with wholesome content that also focused on lifestyle, relationships, and parenting. “How to prepare meals and must-try Nigerian meals are some of the things that you will find on Flo Chinyere’s YouTube channel. “Chef Lola shares recipes and instructions on how to make delicious dishes and also shows how to bake mouth-wateringly good bakes like white bread, lemon yogurt cake, and Chinese hot dog buns. “On Naija Food Tube you would find delicious Nigerian cuisine and will be guided on how to quickly become a guru at making these meals,” he said. Source: NAN Vanguard News Cultural enthusiasts in Lagos are bound to be treated to the best of the country’s foods, fashion, music and dance, as the maiden edition of the All Nigerian Cultural Festival beacons. December 2, 2017 In "Entertainment" Nigerian cuisines typically involve the use of spices and herbs with palm oil or groundnut oil to make varieties of deliciously flavoured foods, often spiced with chilli peppers. However, there are some of our mouth-watering Nigerian foods that actually have foreign origins August 2, 2017 In "News" Lagosians are in for a swell time as the best of Foods, wine and the finer things of life premiers at the international food and lifestyle festival in Lagos. Tagged; ‘Taste of Lagos” the premier food, beverage and lifestyle promotional festival billed to hold on the 9th of December, 2011… May 28, 2011 In "My Style"