The Police on Wednesday in Benin, confirmed the kidnap of Justice Chioma Nwosu of the Court Of Appeal, Benin Division. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), reports that the judge was kidnapped by gunmen in Benin, in the early hours of Wednesday. NAN also reports that the police orderly accompanying the judge, Insp. A. I. Momoh, was also killed by the gunmen before taking the victim away. Confirming the report, Edo State Police Command spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, said that the incident occurred at about 11.30 a.m., along the Benin-Agbor expressway, at Christ Chosen Church of God International. According to him “The victim, Justice Chioma Nwosu was attacked, while the police orderly attached to her, Insp. A. I. Momoh, was murdered and the driver of the vehicle severely injured and was rushed to a nearby hospital for treatment. “Immediately, the police operatives at Ikpoba Hill Divisional Police Headquarters, the tactical team of Edo command and other relevant sections, swung into action. “Investigation is ongoing and by the grace of God, Justice Chioma Nwosu will be rescued unhurt,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Department of State Services (DSS) has arrested one Stanley Onoriode Ekemaye who allegedly masterminded the abduction of Justice Chioma Nwosu-Iheme of the Court of Appeal, Benin division Justice Nwosu was abducted on October 30 after she was trailed from Ramat Park end of the Benin-Agbor road in Edo State.… November 26, 2019 In "News" Davies Iheamnachor – Port Harcourt Unidentified gunmen on Tuesday kidnapped four officers of the Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) in Onne, Rivers State. The yet to be identified immigration officers were abducted on Bonny- Port Harcourt river in the morning hours of Tuesday. It was gathered that the victims were travelling… November 12, 2019 In "News" By Chinonso Alozie, Owerri Governor of Imo State, Emeka Ihedioha, yesterday said he was happy that Justice Chioma Nwosu Iheme, of the Edo Court of Appeal, has been released by her abductors. The Ihedioha's Senior Special Assistant on Public Enlightenment, Eze Ugochukwu, stated this in Owerri. ALSO READ: 2023 Delta Guber… November 14, 2019 In "News"