The Edo State Government has commenced demolition of illegal structures erected on government property, including public schools and waterways as well as roof eave-extensions and structures erected on the right of way of roads/streets, moats, riverbanks, TCN high tension lines, among others in Benin City and other major settlements in the state. In a statement, Commissioner of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Erimona Oye Edorodion said the ministries of Environment and Sustainability and Physical Planning and Urban Development will be embarking on a joint demolition exercise in Benin City and other major settlements in the state. He said the joint exercise became necessary to address the challenge of poor living and working environment and incessant cases of flooding in urban centres, adding, “The exercise will involve development control activities to ensure that illegal structures which are poorly constructed and wrongly sited are demolished. “It will also ensure that developments that are involved in the unlawful discharge of sewage, and industrial wastes into our environment are sanctioned. This is in accordance with the provisions of the State’s Extant Town Planning and Environmental Laws and Regulations and to ensure that our living and working environment is safe, healthy, convenient and aesthetically pleasing.” The commissioner said “Illegal structures, which would be affected in the demolition exercise include: building structures on government acquisitions, public schools and water ways, roof eave-extensions, structures erected on the right of way of roads/streets, moats, river banks, TCN high tension lines, all attachments on wall fence, caravans, kiosks and wooden sheds.” Edorodion urged illegal developers to, in their own interest, demolish or remove their illegal structures and reinstate the land to its original status prior to the illegal construction, warning property owners and developers involved in the violation of the state’s environmental laws to desist from such practice. He maintained that “the relevant ministry shall enforce the provisions of the Extant Environmental and Town Planning Laws of the State, to control illegal development. “The cost of such action shall be recovered from the violators in a law court of competent jurisdiction and they shall be prosecuted accordingly,” he added. vanguard The Edo State Government has said it will commence demolition of illegal structures following the expiration of notices earlier served on illegal developers for contravening the state’s extant town planning laws, which includes erecting unapproved structures and buildings on moats and river banks. In a statement, Commissioner for Physical Planning… April 10, 2019 In "News" The Edo State Government has commenced the removal of illegal buildings and structures that violate the state’s extant town planning laws, as part of a renewed bid to keep faith with its urban renewal plans and prevent man-made disasters such as flooding. July 2, 2019 In "Metro" Following the earlier complaints against occupants of the land belonging to Anglican Girls Grammar School by some old students of the school and members of Concerned Edo Citizens, a non-governmental organisation, the former students have called on the Edo State government to extend the demolition notice it has served in… January 15, 2018 In "News"