The Presidency says President Muhammadu Buhari is set to present the 2020 Appropriation Bill to a joint session of the National Assembly (NASS) on Tuesday. Mr Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, confirmed this development at the end of an extraordinary meeting of the Federal Executive Council (FEC). The meeting which considered the 2020 budget proposals before its presentation to the National Assembly on Tuesday by 1.30 pm, was presided over by President Buhari at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday. Adesina, who briefly spoke to State House correspondents, said: “No briefing, we only looked at what we will present at the National Assembly tomorrow”, referring to Tuesday’s presentation of the 2020 budget proposal to the NASS by President Buhari. President Buhari is expected to lay the 2020 budget before a joint session of the Senate and House of Representatives on Oct. 8 for approval, “as the country intends to revert to the January to December budget cycle.’’ ⤕Budget: Buhari to preside over extra-ordinary FEC Saturday ⤕NARD wants FG to capture residency training funds in 2020 budget The early presentation of the 2020 budget is meant to return the Federal Government budget cycle from May-June to January-December. The Senate had on Thursday increased the proposed 2020 budget from N10.007 billion to N10.729trillion. However, President Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly had on Sunday night (Oct. 6) met behind closed doors at the President’s official residence in Abuja in what appeared to be `2020 budget reconciliation meeting’. [NAN] Vanguard News Nigeria. …as Buhari presents Appropriation Bill today By Johnbosco Agbakwuru - Abuja The Federal Executive Council, FEC, has accepted the increase in the Medium Term Expenditure Framework, MTEF by the National Assembly from N10. O02 trillion to N10. 729 trillion. FEC at the Extraordinary meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari… October 7, 2019 In "News" STRONG indications emerged, yesterday, that the presentation of the 2018 Appropriation Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari to the Senate and House of Representatives may be threatened as lawmakers are poised to create tension and make the session very rowdy. November 7, 2017 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari is to present the 2019 Appropriation Bill to the joint session of National Assembly on Wedneday the 19th of December. December 13, 2018 In "News"