President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Golden Eaglets of Nigeria over what he described as a ‘fantastic beginning’ in the group’s opening match of FIFA U-17 World Cup in Brazil. The Nigeria Under-17 football team opened the championship with a 4-2 win over Hungary on Saturday, signalling their readiness to win the FIFA Championship for an unprecedented sixth time. The President, in a message to the team after the spectacular performance, praised the boys for the determination to excel which they displayed throughout the match in spite of the brilliant performance of their opponents. The President’s spokesman, Malam Garba Shehu, quoted the president as saying: ”It was a wonderful display that I am very proud of. “You showed that there is nothing that cannot be achieved with determination and perseverance. “I have followed your journey leading to your arrival in Brazil for the competition. I have equally noted your determination and confidence throughout your preparations. “I have no doubt in my mind that you are determined to win the competition for an unparalleled sixth time.” Garba stated that President Buhari had assured the Golden Eaglets of his continuous personal support and that of Nigerians for the entire period of the tournament. He also urged the team to continue demonstrating the resilient spirit of the Nigerian, and bring the cup home, adding that he would personally be monitoring their progress in the tournament. The president equally congratulated the handlers of the team, urging them to be sensitive to the needs of the youngsters in their burning desire to bring victory and honour to their fatherland. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that in the other match of the opening day, host nation Brazil pounded Canada 4-1 in Brasilia. Nigeria will go up against Ecuador in their next match on Tuesday at the same venue. Victory is certain to take the Eaglets to the Round of 16, ahead of their final Group B encounter with Australia. Vanguard By Johnbosco Agbakwuru, Abuja President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the Golden Eaglets of Nigeria for a fantastic beginning in the group opening match of ongoing FIFA World Cup Brazil 2019.   Nigeria Under-17 football team opened Brazil 2019 in a bright note with a 4-2 spanking of Hungary, signaling their… October 27, 2019 In "Sports" President Buhari has said that the victory of the Golden Eaglets over Mali in the final match of 2015 Under-17 FIFA World Cup tournament in Chile on Sunday clearly indicated the indomitable spirit of Nigerians was still active. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr.… November 9, 2015 In "News" The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has urged the Golden Eaglets to create record for themselves and Nigeria by winning U-17 World Cup title for the fifth time. November 7, 2015 In "Sports"