Lionel Messi has spectacularly revealed that he wanted to quit Barcelona during his £2.95million tax row with the Spanish government and it was only a lack of offers from elsewhere that kept him at the club. Messi has played for Barca for his entire professional career, and has often spoken about his desire to be a one-club man, but it could have all been very different had an offer come about in the summer of 2017. Speaking in an interview with RAC1, the Argentine said: ‘At that time, with the mess of the treasury, I wanted to leave, not for wanting to leave Barca but wanting to leave Spain. “I felt that I was being very mistreated and I didn’t want to stay here. I never had an official offer because everyone knew my idea to stay here.” ⤕Tax fraud case almost made me leave Barcelona ― Messi ⤕Saudi Arabia rules women can join army When pushed further on his tax fraud case, which ended with him having to pay a £223,000 fine, he added: “It was very difficult for me and my family because people don’t know much about what’s going on, according to DailyMail report. “The truth is that it was hard for everything that happened but it is better than my children were small and did not know.” As it is, Messi remains at the Nou Camp and is currently playing in his 16th professional season with the club. Since his debut in November 2003, he has scored 604 goals for the club in 692 matches, and still looks to have plenty more years in his locker. When questioned about his future, Messi said: ‘Today my idea and that of my family is to end here. ‘Especially first because of how I am in the club, how I feel in the club, then because of the familiar, for how good we are in this city, for my children, for not changing my friendships and I don’t want it broken because I had to live it on my personal level.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Lionel Messi has revealed that he almost left Barcelona in 2014 after he and his father were charged with tax fraud. The five-time Ballon d'Or winner was alleged to have used tax havens in Belize and Uruguay to conceal earnings from image rights and as such defrauded Spain of €4.1 million between 2007 and 2009. Messi was… October 9, 2019 In "Sports" Lionel Messi has admitted that he thought Neymar would join Real Madrid this summer if he didn't sign for Barcelona instead. The Brazilian forward made no secret of his desire to leave Paris Saint-Germain and both of Spain's big two clubs were linked with him. "I really thought Neymarwould go to Real Madrid if he didn't come here," Messi… October 9, 2019 In "Sports" Barcelona captain Lionel Messi would be "thrilled" if Neymar returned to the Catalan side but insisted they could still win trophies without the Brazilian. September 12, 2019 In "News"