Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has told his appointees that the door was open for them to quit instead of grumbling in his administration. Umahi made the pronouncement on Tuesday in Abakaliki while distributing 68 vehicles (SUVs) to some appointees who include Senior Special Assistants (SSA) Special Assistants (SA), Permanent Secretaries and members of the state House of Assembly. The governor said it was baffling to see appointees grumbling in spite of having new vehicles and earning salaries as such persons were putting themselves in a terrible spiritual situation. “Do you want to be like the people in the village?  Everybody here, including myself is privileged and we are not better than those not in this position. “Nobody should take him or herself as a superstar as you cannot be in the system and still be castigating it. “Those who know what they are doing don’t have time to grumble but invent things but when you have nothing to offer, you gossip and complain to cover things,” he said He said the government was “watching such persons with one eye”’, stressing that the vehicles still belonged to the government in spite of being used by the appointees. “The vehicles are 99.9 per cent owned by the government and 0.1 per cent by the appointees and if you are leaving the government, you will give us the vehicles. “There is no calculation in this as the number of days you will ride the cars is your own benefit,” he said. Umahi said that the appointees’ transportation allowances were embedded in their consolidated emoluments as the vehicles were meant to assist them to perform optimally in their various duties. “The old appointees will not get new vehicles but car loans which is optional and this is because the poverty in the land is much. “I cannot be giving new vehicles every four years, our people are suffering and need our attention as their population gives us the little we have,” he said. He called on the state’s leaders to make sacrifices because of the people who mostly could not get a meal to eat, adding that the vehicle he was using was used by his predecessor for eight years. The Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Dr Kenneth Ugbala, thanked the governor for providing the vehicles, noting that they cost millions of Naira. “The vehicles would be distributed to some SSA’s, SA’s Permanent Secretaries, 13 Coordinators of Local Government Areas (LGA) development centres, among others. Vanguard news By Peter Okutu Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, yesterday said he would sack any of his aides who insult President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress. Umahi also warned that any of his appointees, who hitherto derived pleasure in talking down on his fellow governors across the country… September 26, 2019 In "News" Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi has announced his plan to appoint 800 aides, in addition to the 4,000 appointments already made by his administration. Umahi said this on Monday in Abakaliki when he met with members of the State Executive Council (EXCO), state House of Assembly, Local Government Area (LGA)… September 16, 2019 In "News" Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi on Tuesday announced the appointment of Dr Chamberlain Nwele as the Head of Service of Ebonyi and 21 other new appointees. July 9, 2019 In "News"