Explains why she stayed long abroad ABUJA–WIFE of the President, Dr. Aisha Muhammad Buhari on Sunday in Abuja said that she was now rejuvenated to continue the work of improving the health and well-being of women, children and other vulnerable Nigerians. The First Lady also explained why she had to take a long leave, saying before the advent of the present administration, it was the custom for her to take a long vacation with her children. Dr. Aisha Buhari whose long absence at the State House has attracted a lot of insinuations, arrived Nigeria at the early hours of Sunday at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja with some serving and former governors wives on ground to welcome her. APC Chieftain recommends Aisha Buhari for “African Woman of the Year” award(Opens in a new browser tab) A statement by the Director of Information, Office of the Wife of the President, State House, Suleiman Haruna, read, “This morning (Sunday), First Lady of Nigeria, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari returned to the country after a long holiday in the UK. “She arrived at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport at 4.30am via a British Airways flight.” According to the statement, Dr. Aisha Buhari who spoke to reporters on arrival said that “she was happy to be home after a well-deserved rest. She confirmed that she was fully rejuvenated to continue the work of improving the health and well-being of women, children and other vulnerable Nigerians. “She used the opportunity to thank her husband, family and well-wishers for their support and encouragement. ” On hand to receive her were wives of present and former and governors and many associates.”  Aisha Buhari has arrived Nigeria in the early hours of Sunday after been away for sometime in what she described as a "deserved rest". A statement by her spokesman, Suleiman Haruna, said that Aisha Buhari arrived 4.30 am at the Nnamdi Azikwe International Airport, Abuja. “This morning, First Lady of… October 13, 2019 In "News" The First Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Sunday cautioned Nigerians on the dangers of spreading fake news shortly after she returned from a medical leave from the United kingdom. October 13, 2019 In "News" The First Lady, Aisha Buhari, on Sunday cautioned Nigerians on the dangers of spreading fake news shortly after she returned from a medical leave from the United kingdom. October 13, 2019 In "News"