The member representing Ovia Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives and Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Legislative Compliance, Mr Dennis Idahosa, had commended both the Federal Government and Labour unions over the peaceful resolution on the issues surrounding the full implementation of the national minimum wage. A press release made available to journalists in Benin City yesterday, he lauded the government and the labour unions for averting industrial action that would have further impacted negatively on the nation’s economy. According to lawmaker, “I am very pleased that this issue delaying the implementation of the minimum wage have been laid to rest and the proposed strike action averted. “To me, this peaceful resolution has demonstrated the never give up of the spirit, though tough, the key actors were able to sit and find a way out of the logjam.” Idahosa, however, said that now that the issues have been sorted out, the Nigerian workers can now go about their normal duty of moving the country forward without haven to worry about when the implementation of the minimum wage will commence. The lawmaker reiterated that the National Assembly would always be willing to come out with policies that would not be detrimental to the welfare of the Nigerian workers. After three days of the meeting, the government and the labour unions in the early hours of Friday sorted the issues of consequential adjustment for other categories of workers that have delayed the implementation of the minimum wage which President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law in April this year. Vanguard News The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Legislative Compliance, Mr Dennis Idahosa, has commended the Federal Government and organised labour over the peaceful resolution on the full implementation of the new national minimum wage. Idahos, who gave the commendation in a statement on Friday in Benin on Friday said that… October 18, 2019 In "News" BENIN CITY—THE Elawure of Usen in Ovia South West Local Government Area of Edo State, Oluogbe II, has pledged support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) and its candidate for the Ovia Federal Constituency, Mr Dennis Idahosa, in the 2019 general elections. November 14, 2018 In "News" Mr Dennis Idahosa, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo has appealed to members of the party, especially the aggrieved, to eschew personal ambition and work for the interest of the party. October 9, 2018 In "News"