A new poll released on Wednesday by Politico/Morning Consult showed a 46 per cent support rate for impeaching U.S. President Donald Trump, and 43 per cent opposition. The result is a new high for support to impeach Trump, with the Democratic Party pressing ahead with an impeachment inquiry. This is the first time for the poll to show that support for impeachment had surpassed opposition. The same poll earlier had the two sides even, while in the recent week 36 per cent showed support while 49 per cent were against. Trump fires John Bolton as national security adviser(Opens in a new browser tab) Tyler Sinclair, Morning Consult’s vice president said “support for impeachment proceedings remains high among voters, but Democrats could face limited support from Republicans through the process. Sinclair, said while the result showed that appetite for impeachment among the public is increasing, opinion on whether Trump should be removed from office as a result of the impeachment remain divided. According to a Monmouth University Poll released Tuesday, 44 per cent said Trump should be compelled to leave the White House, while 52 per cent disagree. The U.S. House of Representatives announced earlier to launch impeachment investigations after a whistleblower’s complaint alerted lawmakers about a telephone call between Trump and Ukraine’s president. According to a description of the phone call released by the White House, Trump said he would like the Ukrainian government to investigate a corruption allegation against Hunter Biden. Biden is the son of former U.S. Vice President and current Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. With the election day looming on Tuesday, the U.S. leading presidential candidates Democratic Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump engage in a marathon race over the weekend in the final battle for the White House. November 7, 2016 In "News" With three weeks until election day, Hillary Clinton holds a four-point lead over Donald Trump in the race for the White House, according to a new Washington Post-ABC News poll, with the Republican nominee hobbled by persistent perceptions that he is not qualified to be president. October 17, 2016 In "News" President Donald Trump’s campaign on Tuesday kicks off its efforts to woo women voters, banking that a strong economic message will energise a voting bloc that has been largely critical of his presidency. July 16, 2019 In "Foreign"