The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) has said that the planned road closure at Yaba level crossing had been postponed. The LASTMA’s spokesman, Mr Olumide Filade made this known in a Public Notice made available to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Wednesday night. The authority in travel advisory had earlier on Wednesday announced the road closure at the railway level crossing in Yaba following the ongoing construction of Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line. According to the travel advisory earlier made available, the level crossing will be closed from 8:00 p.m. on Wednesday to 1: 00 a.m on Thursday. LASTMA, however, in a contrary statement, said that the China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) just intimated the state government that the planned work at the level crossing had been postponed. “The construction company working on the Ibadan-Lagos standard gauge line rail project has just notified the state government that the planned works at the Yaba rail crossing has been put on hold for reasons beyond their control. ⤖Nigeria lost N39bn to trailer, tanker accidents in 2018 — Oyeyemi ⤖Envoy urges Taraba Assembly to impeach Gov. Ishaku over alleged incompetence “The company has therefore tendered an unreserved apology for all inconvenience that the earlier announced closure must have caused road users within the axis. “CCECC hereby affirms that the rail works postponement was unavoidable and promise that adequate notice would be made available in future in order for Lagos road users to plan their journey,” the statement said. The authority had earlier advised motorists to use alternative routes and promised that its personnel would be on ground to manage the traffic. Vanguard News Nigeria. The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing on Tuesday vowed to seek immediate redress to traffic impediments as work continues on the ongoing rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway project. September 4, 2019 In "News" The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) on Friday vowed to sanction erring officers of the authority following series of complaints from the motoring public. Comptroller Isaac Adetimiro, the Deputy General Manager of LASTMA,  said in a statement in Lagos on Friday that the management was intensifying efforts to ensure… October 4, 2019 In "News" The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) on Wednesday lauded motorists and commuters for their understanding, support and cooperation since the State Government commenced massive road rehabilitation across the State, revealing that a new strategy has been mapped out to enhance free-flow of traffic. June 20, 2018 In "News"