The Senate says it is probing the award of Water Hyacinth Emergency and Desilting Contracts awarded by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) from 2017 to 2019. Chairman Senate Committee on Public Accounts, Sen. Matthew Urhoghide made this known when the Director, Special Duties of the NDDC, Nosakhare Agbongiasede appeared before the committee in Abuja on Thursday. Urhoghide said that the investigation became imperative because the initial cost of the contract at N2.5 billion was allegedly jerked to N65 billion on the project. “Of course, that is a very serious offence. What we are hearing or what we know is that N2.5billion was budgeted for this activity, that is, desilting and clearing of water hyacinths. “We are hearing that the Commission has spent N65 billion, so, we want to know if it is true. “We had invited the acting Managing Director and Management of the NDDC to come and testify before this committee of the Senate on Public Accounts on an issue that has become of national importance. “That is, the award of contracts that has to do with the clearing of water hyacinth in the Niger Delta region, and of course the desilting contracts that were awarded by the NDDC under its emergency programme. 1,723 contractors received N70bn without mobilising to site ―Reps Senate threatens AG over audit reports of State House, EFCC, FIRS, others “We want to be able to ascertain if due processes were followed in the award of these contracts, particularly with the information we have at our disposal that they exceeded budget limits. ” It is an allegation. It is still an assumption until they come to clear the air surrounding this. “This is why the senate is particularly interested and has mandated this committee to carry out full investigation. “So, we want the Acting MD to come. We are aware that the acting MD assumed duties a few weeks ago but government is a continuum. “It is not a case of whether she is the one that was in office or not, and again we are very clear that this committee is not out to witch hunt anybody,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. YENAGOA- YOUTHS of  Niger Delta, on Thursday, gave the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, a seven-day ultimatum to commence payment to  youths and other beneficiaries cutting across oil producing communities in the region, who executed water hyacinth contracts, an empowerment scheme of the interventionist agency, to avoid needless commotion in… August 24, 2019 In "News" THE Senate has summoned the acting Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Mrs. Ibim Semenitari, to appear before it tomorrow, to give a detailed report on the abandoned construction of Shore Protection Project at Koko, Warri North Local Government Area in Delta State. October 3, 2016 In "News" YOUTHS of Niger Delta, on Thursday, gave the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, a seven-day ultimatum to commence payment to youths and other beneficiaries cutting across oil-producing communities in the region, who executed water hyacinth contracts, an empowerment scheme of the interventionist agency, to avoid needless commotion in the region. August 22, 2019 In "News"