The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has inaugurated its campaign committee for the November 16, Kogi governorship election. Speaking at the inauguration in Lokoja on Friday, the state’s chairman of the party, Mr Samuel Uhuotu , urged members of the committee to ensure issue-based campaign. He also advised them not to engage in hate speech and personal attacks during the campaign. Uhuotu, insisted that the party’s candidate, Mr Musa Wada is the man to beat in the election, saying that the poor performance of the incumbent had made the election a walk over for him. The Director-General of Musa/Aro Governorship Campaign Organisation, Mr Tajudeen Yusuf, said the organisation had concluded arrangements for a robust campaign in all the nooks and crannies of the state. Yusuf also called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to create level playing ground for all political parties in the election. PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, urged the electorate to use the election to liberate themselves from misrule, poverty and other forms of injustices of the present administration in the state. He expressed delight on the large turnout of party faithful at the event, saying that the party was poised to win the election free and fair. Security beefed up in Kano ahead of tribunal’s judgment In his speech, the governorship candidate of the party, Mr Musa Wada, called on the people to vote massively for him in the election. He promised to provide quality services and restore the lost glory of the state in the areas of agriculture, sports, solid minerals, tourism and culture if elected in the November poll. (NAN) Vanguard Ahead of the November 16 governorship election in Kogi state, the quest by the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, to wrestle power from the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, got a boost today following the acceptance of Ibrahim Idris, a former governor of the state, to chair the campaign council. September 21, 2019 In "News" Soni Daniel, Abuja The Director-General of the Governorship Campaign Committee of the All Progressives Congress in Kogi State, Sen. Smart Adeyemi, said yesterday,  that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would struggle to secure 25 percent votes in the November poll. Adeyemi mocked the PDP for having no candidate in the upcoming… September 25, 2019 In "News" Soni Daniel - Abuja The Director-General of the Governorship Campaign Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kogi State, Sen Smart Adeyemi, said yesterday, that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would struggle to secure 25 per cent votes in the November poll. Sen. Smart Adeyemi, DG Kogi Governorship Campaign… September 25, 2019 In "News"