Manchester United’s struggles are the result of poor planning by the club’s board and manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer needs time and money to get the team back on track, former defender Gary Neville has said. United, once the dominant force in English football, made their worst start to a Premier League campaign in 30 years and dropped to 12th in the table two points above the relegation zone after Sunday’s 1-0 defeat at Newcastle United. Solskjaer is the fourth permanent manager to take charge since Alex Ferguson retired in 2013, with the 20-times English champions enduring mixed fortunes under David Moyes, Louis van Gaal and Jose Mourinho despite spending heavily on players. “United are getting the pain they deserve for poor decisions at board level,” Neville told Sky Sports. “The board (is) responsible for this with poor recruitment, poor selection of managers, going with them and then pulling off them.
“If you change direction as a board every two years, investing 250 million pounds ($308 million) along the way in each manager, you’re going to have big problems.” Solskjaer, who sanctioned the departures of Alexis Sanchez and Romelu Lukaku in the close season, is trying to rebuild the side with a greater emphasis on youth, and Neville said the board would have to be patient with his former team mate. The club signed centre back Harry Maguire, right back Aaron Wan-Bissaka and winger Daniel James before the season started, but need to bring in another “five or six top players”, he added. “Solskjaer needs… the opportunity to spend the money the others have had to spend. “If United recruit well in the next three or four windows, they’ve got the bones of something. If they recruit badly, they’ll end up suffering. “There’s no quick fix and it has to be done methodically. I hope, because of the poor results, they don’t come off the path they’re on which is to develop a young, progressive team but they do need some quality and experience in there,” Neville said. Source: NAN Vanguard News Manchester United sacked manager Jose Mourinho on Tuesday after the club's worst start to a season in nearly three decades, hoping to bring about a radical change in atmosphere and the direction of the club. December 18, 2018 In "Sports" Manchester United's victory against Tottenham is a statement win for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but the team's reliance on David de Gea's heroics in goal show the interim boss still has work to do. January 14, 2019 In "News" Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said prior to the humiliating 4-0 thrashing by Everton there would not be wholesale changes to Manchester United personnel in the close season, but Gary Neville, for one, believes he should think again. April 22, 2019 In "Sports"