The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday said the affirmation of the election of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa by the State governorship election tribunal, is a victory for democracy and a triumph of the will and aspiration of the people over manipulative forces. The party also said it was not surprised that the tribunal, in affirming the mandate of the people, dismissed the entire petition against Governor Fintiri’s election as lacking in merit. In a statement on Monday night  signed by its image maker, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said it rejoiced with the people of Adamawa State,  “who have been jubilant over the verdict, as it marks the consolidation of their aspiration for a purposeful, transparent and result-oriented government for greater cohesion, stability, and productivity in the state.” The statement further read, “unarguably, Governor Fintiri was elected because of his manifest patriotism and dedication to duty as already evinced in his zeal towards the development of the state, empowerment of the people as well as peaceful coexistence in the state. “Already, Governor Fintiri’s fervor towards the rapid development of the state in various sectors, including agriculture, infrastructure, education, health care, rural development, industrialization and other critical areas of life, stand him out as a leader devoted only to the good of the people. “The PDP commends the judiciary for upholding justice even as it restates its call to all public officials elected and appointed on its platform to continue in their selfless service to the people; for which the party is known across the country and beyond.” vanguard Dirisu Yakubu - Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday congratulated Benue State Governor, Samuel Otorm and his Bauchi State counterpart, Senator Bala Mohammed, on their victory at the governorship election petitions tribunal in the respective states. The party said in a statement that the verdict of the tribunal… October 8, 2019 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has congratulated Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta and his Abia counterpart, Okezie Ikpeazu over the Governorship Elections Petition Tribunals judgment which upheld their elections. September 20, 2019 In "News" The Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe-Abdullahi, has hailed the victory of Gov. Abdullahi Sule at the Governorship Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Lafia. In a statement made available to newsmen in Lafia on Saturday, Ibrahim-Balarabe said that the judgment had further demonstrated that the judiciary… September 22, 2019 In "News"