BAYELSA State Governor, Seriake Dickson, said on Wednesday the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has not given a convincing reassurance of its impartiality in the November 16 governorship election in the state. The governor said it was rather worrisome and shocking that INEC betrayed the confidence of the Bayelsa people by its collusion with security agencies to rig the last Presidential and National Assembly elections in parts of the state. Dickson stated these while speaking on political developments in the state especially the forthcoming election in a live media chat in Yenagoa, the state capital. He said: “The activities of INEC has not given confidence to Bayelsans. People were driven away from Nembe Bassambiri, and they allowed materials to go into volatile areas to declare manipulated results. “INEC should do what is right rather than colluding with undesirable elements to perpetrate crime. “The security agencies should do the right thing to return the displaced people of Nembe Bassambiri to their community so that they can vote in this election. “I condemn the reign òf brigandage, in the Bayelsa East Senatorial District. Those who carry out the crimes are not facing trial, and that could have a multiplier effect on other areas.” Dickson described the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a party in distress and challenged the governorship candidates to hold healthy debates on issues of governance to enable the electorate to assess their capabilities. He said the decision of the APC leadership to give major appointments to defectors could only point to a party without people and structures and is unprepared for election in the state. He advised Bayelsans to ignore the sponsored reports of defections into the APC, stressing that the elections are not about leaders but the people. “I will support a debate between the two leading candidates. We are not arguing for and talking enough. Let them talk so that we can assess them. Running a government is a serious thing. It is beyond campaign slogans,” the governor added.  Vanguard THE Chairman of Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, Bayelsa State, Chief Remember Ogbe, has described as untrue, claims by the Bayelsa State chapter of All Progressives Congress, APC, that Governor Seriake Dickson assaulted him at Government House over Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,'s alleged poor performance at the election in Southern… December 28, 2015 In "News" Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, has described the forthcoming governorship election in the state as a veritable opportunity for Bayelsans to once again demonstrate their love and trust for the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. July 17, 2015 In "News" Former Bayelsa State governor and candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, in the just concluded governorship poll in the state, Chief Timipre Sylva, yesterday said he would challenge the outcome of the election in the state at the tribunal, describing the exercise as a sham. January 12, 2016 In "News"