Volkswagen does not expect the shift in production toward electric cars aimed at averting billions of euros in European pollution fines to hurt its profit margins, Chief Executive Herbert Diess said in a newspaper report on Monday. “We do not expect a deterioration in margins. Our advantage is that all our brands have the same platform for electric products and the same batteries that we buy in China,” Diess said in an interview with daily la Repubblica’s Monday supplement A&F. Diess said the German carmaker expected to sell nearly 20,000 Audi e-Tron in 2019, adding the first year’s production of the electric Porsche Taycan was already sold out. Orders for the VW ID.3, the group’s recently unveiled compact electric model, are already covering the production planned until mid-2020, Diess said. Last month at Frankfurt auto shows Germany’s premium automakers marketed electric cars as their flagship models to lure customers away from gas-guzzling SUVs. Diess said he was concerned by the trade war between the United States and China, which was already causing a fall in Volkswagen’s Chinese sales even if it’s market share in the country had been growing in the past six months, reaching 19 per cent. In any case, Volkswagen does not plan to cut its exposure to the Chinese market, Diess said. vanguard The combined value of the two coins spawned from the so-called forking of Bitcoin  is less than that of a single Bitcoin Cash coin Wednesday, according to data from exchange Poloniex. Bitcoin Cash SV, as one version is called, is trading at about $96.50, and Bitcoin Cash ABC, the other… January 3, 2019 In "Business" Daimler says it expects to bring more than 10 new electric cars to the market by 2022, bringing forward a goal it had previously set at 2025. The automaker unveiled the Generation EQ concept at the Paris auto show last year as the first of 10 SUVs, sedans, and compacts… March 30, 2017 In "Motoring" From the Shakespearean account in the Merchant of Venice, the character, Gratiano consoled his friend, Antonio who felt sad because his world was coming to an end. In a conversation frustrated Antonio said: I hold the world, but as the world, Gratiano, a stage where every man must play a… July 15, 2017 In "Oil & Gas Summiteer"