Russian national Maria Butina, who was jailed in the United States in April after admitting to working as a Russian agent, arrived in Moscow on Saturday, greeted by her father and Russian journalists who handed her flowers. “Russians never surrender,” an emotional Butina told reporters at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo airport, flanked by her father and the Russian Foreign Ministry’s spokeswoman. Clutching a bouquet of white roses, the 30-year-old graduate student thanked her supporters and added she was happy to be back. Butina pleaded guilty in December last year to one count of conspiring to act as a foreign agent for Russia by infiltrating a gun rights group and influencing U.S. conservative activists and Republicans. Her case further strained U.S.-Russian relations, prompting Moscow to accuse Washington of forcing Butina to confess to what it described as ridiculous charges. Earlier this year Russian President Vladimir Putin called the United States’ treatment of Butina a travesty of justice and said her sentence looked like an attempt by U.S. law enforcement and judicial officials to save face. Despite his criticism of the way Butina was treated, Putin has no plans to meet with her, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said this week. In the past Putin has warmly welcomed home Russian agents arrested abroad. Russia’s leader said in 2010 that he had sung patriotic songs with Anna Chapman, one of 10 Russian agents deported from the United States as part of the countries’ biggest spy swap since the Cold War. [Reuters] Vanguard News Nigeria. A 29-year-old Russian woman has been arrested for conspiring to influence US politics by cultivating ties with political groups including the National Rifle Association. July 16, 2018 In "News" Russia said Monday its security services had detained a US citizen in Moscow accused of spying, the latest in a series of espionage cases between Russia and the West. December 31, 2018 In "News" The Russian Embassy in the UK shares information about the condition of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokesperson, Maria Zakharova, said on Wednesday. April 4, 2018 In "News"