The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has congratulated Sir Adebutu Adebunkunola Kesington on the conferment of the Odole Oodua title on him by the Ooni of Ife, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II. The Governor, in a statement, said Kesington, the brain behind the popular Baba Ijebu lotto, among other business enterprises, is deserving of the honour on account of his impact on society. The conferment of the chieftaincy award holds October 19, in Ile-Ife, Osun State. According to the Governor, “I congratulate Sir Adebutu Adebunkunola Kesington on the conferment of the chieftaincy title on him by the great stool of Oduduwa. He is deserving of the honour because of his illustrious achievements and his impact on millions of Nigerians. “To merit the title, Odole Oodua, Kesington has done a lot as a businessman and a philanthropist. He steps in the shoes of the likes of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who held the title in the past. “The Odole Oodua works with the Ooni to rally descendants of Oduduwa across the world for peace, unity and progress of the Yoruba race. I am sure the choice of Sir Kesington is well deserved and I pray he contributes to the Ooni’s quest to bring growth and development to the Yoruba race.” Vanguard By Shina Abubakar, Osogbo Gaming magnate, Sir Adebutu Kensington, has hinted that he may not accept any other traditional title after his coronation as the Odole Oodua by the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi. Kensington said this on Thursday during an interactive session with journalists in company of the planning… October 5, 2019 In "News" After announcing the gaming magnate, Chief Adebutu Kensington as the Odole of Oodua, a special office which works closely with the Ooni in rallying the descendants of Oduduwa wherever they are in the world for unity, peace and progress of the race. A position once occupied by the late Chief… October 8, 2019 In "News" I was born at Iperu-Remo, Ikenne Local Government, Ogun State in 1935. By the grace of God, I will be 84 years old on October 16. October 9, 2019 In "News"