Toro Entertainment Company, a frontline entertainment company in accordance with its revised corporate strategy has decided to rebrand its corporate identity to reflect the global outlook of the brand. The corporate identity change also reflects the organisation’s broader commitment to deploying its transformative expertise across the local and international entertainment value chain. The company will carry over its current service offerings while assuming a new all-inclusive role of ensuring that the full entertainment gamut—sponsors, creators and consumers—obtain maximum value from the process. “Our new and improved blueprint pivots around the determination to make entertainment as basic to everyone in a similar manner to human rights. We repine for individuals, regardless of their gender, race or religious affiliations, to have access to qualitative entertainment. Nevertheless, we are aware of the profitability aspect of the business and as such are well-equipped to guarantee clients, sponsors and content creators, high reward for investments of all kind,’’ states Adetoro Fowoshere, Founder/CEO, Toro Entertainment Company. LASU operates new era of discipline, rule of law ―Spokesman As part of the rebranding process, Toro Entertainment Company will release a new logo and launch a new company website at www.toroec.com. The expertise of the firm traverses the delivery of innovative services in Concert Management, Show Promotion, Event Management, Talent Management, Media Production and Marketing. Toro Entertainment Company boasts of a diverse partnership with various brands, consisting of first-rate firms across different sectors including Pepsi, First Bank, Guinness Nigeria, Nigerian Breweries & Johnny Walker among others. In the Concert Management industry, the brand has successfully organized and promoted groundbreaking events worldwide such as the first three installments of Olamide Live in Concert (OLIC), 30 Billion Concert, Burna Live, One Night Only to name but a few. Similarly, remarking on the development, Chena Onuorah, Project Coordinator, Toro Entertainment Company, observes: ‘’Creating invaluable experiences for clients and consumers is at the crux of our activities, hence, this exercise serves to emphasize our overarching value-driven perspective. Providing premium quality to clients and the target audience is pertinent to this distinctive approach.’’ Since 2014, Toro Entertainment Company has continued to deliver unparalleled service delivery to its teeming partners, customers and other stakeholders in keeping with our brand promise. VANGUARD TV screens all over Africa will never be the same again as Turner ushers in a new era. African audiences can prepare themselves to re-imagine TV through TNT, a young, fresh and entertainment-filled offering for the entire family. September 23, 2018 In "Entertainment" The hitherto Cross River State Festival which is the most diverse leisure tourism entertainment programme in Africa has been renamed Calabar Festival and its logo unveiled in Calabar. September 17, 2009 In "Business" BHM has announced the appointment of two new Executive Directors, Femi Falodun and Moruff Adenekan to its Board of Directors. September 5, 2017 In "News"