Lucas Ocampos scored his first senior international goal as Argentina pulled off a late fightback in a 2-2 draw with Germany, who let slip a two-goal lead in a game they dominated for an hour. After Serge Gnabry skilfully put the hosts in front, Bayer Leverkusen midfielder Kai Havertz swept home Die Mannschaft’s second of a game in which Argentina offered very little until substitute Lucas Alario pulled one back in the 66th minute. Lionel Messi missed the game while he served a suspension but Lionel Scaloni fielded a strong team including Paulo Dybala, Lautaro Martinez and Roberto Pereyra in attack. Low took the opportunity to give debuts to Gian-Luca Waldschmidt on the wing and Robin Koch in defence and was rewarded with an hour of dominance before a late rally culminated in Ocampos poaching an equaliser that silenced the crowd in Dortmund. Argentina were undone after 15 minutes when Lukas Klostermann got around Angel Correa and played a low cross towards Gnabry, who nipped in ahead of three Argentina defenders and poked the ball into the far corner of the net from six yards. Another Klostermann break brought Germany’s second goal, the RB Leipzig wing-back pouncing after Marcos Rojo yielded possession and surging forward to feed Gnabry, whose slide-rule pass into the box found Havertz unmarked for an easy finish. Marcel Halstenberg crashed a stunning 30-yard free-kick onto the underside of the crossbar before Argentina’s Rodrigo de Paul hammered a similarly spectacular effort onto the post at the other end but at the interval, the hosts deservedly led 2-0. Emre Can forced Agustin Marchesin into a save on the edge of his penalty area early in the second half before Scaloni sent on Alario for Dybala. The Bayer Leverkusen striker had been on the pitch just three minutes when fellow substitute Marcos Acuna picked him out with a floated cross from the left and he arrowed a header into the far corner of Marc-Andre ter Stegen’s net. A Joshua Kimmich free-kick tested Marchesin in the closing stages but the Porto goalkeeper punched it clear before Alario’s run sliced Germany open and Ocampos side-footed home via a deflection off Can, beating Ter Stegen at his near post to Low’s dismay. Source: Goal Vanguard News  Mario Goetze's superb 113th minute volley gave Germany their fourth World Cup title and their first since they became a unified country with a 1-0 win over Lionel Messi's Argentina at the Maracana on Sunday. July 13, 2014 In "2018 World Cup" Germany and Argentina named unchanged teams for Sunday's World Cup final at the Maracana stadium in Rio de Janeiro, with midfielder Angel di Maria on the bench for Argentina. July 13, 2014 In "2018 World Cup" Lionel Messi scored an injury time goal to give Argentina a 1-0 win over Iran at the World Cup on Saturday and see them through to the knockout stage. June 21, 2014 In "2018 World Cup"