Gov. Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Tuesday pledged to support Traditional institutions and promised not to interfere in the Ibadan traditional chieftaincy system, but work to achieve its desired goals. The governor gave the assurance during the 86th birthday anniversary and chieftaincy celebration of High Chief (Mrs) Theresa Oyekanmi. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event held at the International Conference Centre, University of Ibadan. Oyekanmi was recently installed as the 14th Iyalode of Ibadan land after the demise of Alhaja Aminat Abiodun. Makinde was represented by Mrs Funmi Orisadeyi, the state Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters. “As your son, I am reassuring you of my support for the progress of Ibadan. “Let me re-state that I will not interfere in the Ibadan traditional chieftaincy system,” he said. Seyi Makinde warns contractors: Offer me 50% and see what happens to you He solicited the support of traditional institutions across the state for his administration in transforming the state. The governor congratulated the new Iyalode of Ibadanland, praying that she would live long. The Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji, also prayed that his reign and that of the Iyalode would last long and bring the desired growth to Ibadan land. NAN reports that the event was attended by prominent sons and daughters of Ibadan land as well as associations. Among the dignitaries are Oba Lekan Balogun, Otun Olubadan of Ibadan land; High Chief Lekan Alabi, Agbaakin of Ibadan land; and Chief Sarafadeen Alli, a former Secretary to Oyo State Government Vanguard, Nigeria News They say child of God can't be involved in politics Oyo State Governor, Engr Seyi Makinde, has called on men and women of integrity not to shy away from participating in politics, saying that is the only way to sanitise the system. Gov Makinde enthused that his mother and his… August 26, 2019 In "News" FORMER Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, yesterday, called on the people of the state to support his successor, Governor Seyi Makinde to succeed in his administration. August 12, 2019 In "News" The Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, has allayed fears over the delay in the installation of Chief Theresa Oyekanmi as the substantive Iyalode of Ibadanland. February 22, 2019 In "News"