Peru’s vice-president has resigned from her post after declining the opposition’s nomination to be interim leader, saying she hoped it would pave the way for a new general election, according to BBC report. Mercedes Aráoz said the “constitutional order had broken” and that the country faced a “grave institutional crisis”. President Martín Vizcarra on Monday dissolved Congress, but opposition MPs suspended him and swore in Ms Aráoz. On Tuesday, armed police blocked legislators from entering Congress. Some 20 MPs were inside the congressional building in the capital, Lima, refusing to leave in protest against President Vizcarra’s dissolution, while streets around parliament were in lockdown, BBC reported. In a late-night post on Twitter, Ms Aráoz cited a statement by the Organization of American States that Peru’s constitutional court should determine the legality of Mr Vizcarra’s decision to dissolve Congress. She said she hoped that her resignation would lead to general elections being called as soon as possible, for “the good of the country”. Vanguard News Nigeria. To intensify the fight against corruption, the Peru President, Martin Vizcarra dissolved the country's Congress, stating it is hindering his anti-corruption measures. In retaliation, the opposition-run Congress of Peru voted to suspend the President, thereby leaving his vice-president as the new leader. The legislatures move according to officials does not… October 1, 2019 In "Foreign" WARNING: The following information may sound crazy or confusing to you, especially if you already know that real estate billionaire Donald Trump is president-elect of the United States of America. However, pay close attention and you’ll learn a lot about the enigma called Electoral College. December 19, 2016 In "American Notes" ex-FIFA President, Joseph Blatter and ex-UEFA President, Michel Platini have been provisionally banned from all football activities for 90 days by the organisation's Ethics Committee. October 8, 2015 In "News"