President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has called for closer bilateral relationship between Nigeria, Egypt, and Morocco. A statement by Ola Awoniyi his spokesperson indicates that Lawan made the call at separate meetings with the Egyptian Ambassador to Nigeria, Assem Hanafi Elseify and Moroccan Ambassador to Nigeria, Moha Ou Ali Tagma. Lawan said Egypt and Nigeria are leading countries in Africa, nothing that the two countries have had a very long relationship. “Nigeria has been quite supportive of Egypt and Egypt has been supportive of Nigeria. “We need to expand and widen this cooperation and partnership between our two countries,” Lawan said. The senate president said the parliamentary relationship between Egypt and Nigeria needs to be improved, adding that there is the need for cooperation in the parliaments of the two major African countries to be well-grounded, established and sustained. He said parliaments play important and significant roles in ensuring that peoples in different countries are able to come together because they represent the people. “Therefore we carry their sentiments. “We carry their aspirations,we want the relationships that benefit the people that we represent on both sides. “So I will encourage that we try to work out and promote better parliamentary relationship,” Lawan said. He also urged the Egyptian authorities to ease the process of issuance of visas to Nigerians seeking to travel to the country for legitimate business. Lawan made the appeal against the backdrop of complaints received by Nigerians who were denied visas by the Egyptian embassy. “While we are not going to encourage that whoever does not qualify and applies for a visa be given, we believe that many Nigerians have legitimate reasons to apply for visas to go to Egypt. “We need to intensify every possible effort to ensure we are able to address those issues that make this difficult,” Lawan said. Earlier, the Ambassador of Egypt, Assem Kanafy Elseify, said the visit was to congratulate the leadership of the Senate following its emergence on June 11. Elseify also conveyed the intention of the leadership of the Egyptian parliament to visit the National Assembly. According to him, the visit would afford the leaderships of both parliaments the opportunity of strengthening legislative ties to ensure the development of both countries. Receiving the Moroccan Ambassador Moha Ou Ali Tagma, Lawan said Nigeria and Morocco have many things that have brought them together. He cited as examples the agreements on fertiliser and gas pipeline projects which are underway and which will no doubt be beneficial to the two countries. He said the National Assembly would play its part to support President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the projects are delivered. Earlier, Ambassador Tagma said Nigeria and Morrocco stand to benefit mutually from each other in various sectors. “Since the visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to Morroco in June 2018, we have developed a very strong and good relationship in may sectors. “We hope to maintain this relationship because Nigeria and Morocco have much to share,” he said. Source: NAN Vanguard News PRESIDENT of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, yesterday congratulated the Nigeria's Super Eagle for qualifying into the semi final stage of the African Cup of Nation (AfCON) by beating South Africa 2-1 in Egypt. July 10, 2019 In "Sports" Alhaji Mustapha Umar, a second republic politician, said the election of Senator Ahmed Lawan as senate president will provide the required leadership free of unnecessary antagonism for a productive relationship between the executive and legislature. June 10, 2019 In "News" The Ambassador of the Arab Republic of Egypt to Nigeria, Assem Hanafi Elseify has disclosed that over 10,000 Nigerians are currently studying in various institutions of higher learning in Egypt, a development he attributed to the excellent relations between Nigeria and Egypt developed over time. August 2, 2017 In "News"