Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Kadri Hamzat, has restated the present administration’s commitment to making Lagos a Smart City. The deputy governor said this at the 2019 Nigeria Computer Society (NSC) Lagos Information Technology Conference and Annual General Meeting with the theme:’Information Technology: The enabler for a Sustainable Lagos Economy”. Represented by the state Commissioner for Science and Technology, Mr Hakeem Fahm, Hamzat said that achieving smart city was a call to action and a core challenge of the administration. “We will employ smart technologies to meet these challenges of societal transformation and to deliver on the six pillars of development captured in the acronym THEMES “Now the 4th industrial revolution has crept upon us and is an embodiment for smart breakthroughs like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things and Robotics. “You will agree with me that Lagos State has all the necessary ingredients for an enabling ICT environment- innovation, the creativity of young minds. “It has financial power which have revolutionised people’s lives, fostered economic growth and created opportunities for individuals and companies doing business here in Lagos,” Hamzat said. According to him, this year’s theme: “Information Technology: The enabler for a sustainable Lagos Economy” is an important reminder that the work is just beginning. Also speaking at the occasion, NCS Lagos Chapter Chairman, Mr Gani Adegboyega, said that the group was ready to partner with Lagos State to achieve smart city. Adegboyega said that the partnership would be based on six pillars but with particular emphasis on traffic management and security. According to him, the state is doing well but much still need to be done to achieve a smart city. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event featured various awards including Don Etiebet Award, Sidmach Award and Dr Mrs Titi Akinlade Prize. Vanguard News Nigeria. Deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress APC,in Lagos State in the 2019 general elections in Nigeria, Obafemi Hamzat, has disclosed that Babajide Sanwo-Olu, if elected governor of Lagos State, will enforce physical planning law of the state to ensure the state is rid of refuse, adding that the… February 12, 2019 In "Homes & Property" Against the backdrop of the slow pace at which some critical road projects in Lagos are moving, coupled with the attendant challenges faced by movement of people and goods, Lagos State gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress APC, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has pledged to improve on the quality of… January 22, 2019 In "News" Entrepreneurs and technology startups operating in Lagos State will have a better time to improve their businesses and take their skills to another level if the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is elected to govern the state. January 26, 2019 In "Business"