The Zimbabwe government has expressed concern over the United States’ ban placed on its diamonds to prevent it from being imported. The US claimed the diamonds are produced through forced labour. The diamonds were denied entry on Monday, according to The Herald report. The US Embassy Harare posted a tweet yesterday saying: “US Customs & Border Protection issued a Withhold Release Order for artisanal rough-cut diamonds from Zimbabwe’s Marange diamond fields on Oct. 1, 2019, due to evidence of forced labour. US law prohibits importation of goods made with forced labour.”  But Zimbabwe’s Secretary for Information, Publicity and Broadcasting Services, Mr Nick Mangwana told The Herald Wednesday that Zimbabwe government was dismayed by the US action which amounted to new sanctions on Zimbabwe’s diamond industry. He pointed out that Zimbabwe had not officially had a report on the alleged systematic forced labour, which is illegal under the country’s laws. The Minister of Labour and Social Welfare said Zimbabwe had a policy of promoting decent labour. A Zimbabwe industry expert Wednesday described the decision by the US as grossly “misguided and misinformed”. Said Mr Mangwana: “The Government of Zimbabwe is baffled by the decision of the United States of America to issue a so-called Withhold Release Order for rough labour.” “This is a regrettable development because the reason the US authorities are citing, namely that Zimbabwean diamonds are being produced under forced labour, is a blatant and shameless lie that will surprise even cynics amongst us. “Zimbabwe’s Constitution prohibits forced or compulsory labour. We also amended the Labour Act in 2015 to ensure that it is aligned with the Constitution. As a government we have a very strong revulsion towards any form of slavery or servitude,” said Mr Mangwana. He added they have not received reports of forced labour and “definitely (not) of a systematic nature” that might arouse international sanction. “Apparently, invoking the repulsive prospect of alleged forced labour is a new nomenclature for seeking to bar Zimbabwe’s diamonds from the international market after previous attempts to label Zimbabwean diamonds as blood diamonds failed,” said Mr Mangwana. “We will engage the US authorities on this while we continue with our re-engagement efforts as part of President Mnangagwa’s continuous foreign policy thrust of locating Zimbabwe within the global family of nations,” he said. Public Service, Labour and Social Welfare Minister Dr Sekai Nzenza told The Herald Wednesday that they have just completed the “Decent Work Programme strategy and one of our objectives is to promote the dignity and rights of workers in the workplace”. “My ministry is concerned by any reports on the alleged forced Labour and we will work on investigating any such companies or any reported cases,” she said. Diamond expert and former Zimbabwe Consolidated Diamond Company (ZCDC) chief executive, Mr Mark Mabhudhu, said the claims by the US were “not only unfortunate but grossly misguided and misinformed”. “There is virtually nothing like this in our diamond industry. Zimbabwe is replete with a highly qualified labour force which is neither forced nor compelled at any point along the mining and processing value chain,” he said. Vanguard News Nigeria. Former President Robert Mugabe will not appear before Zimbabwe’s parliament as scheduled on Wednesday to answer questions on diamond mining operations, a legislator said. May 8, 2018 In "News" Zimbabwe has restricted the importation of a list of basic goods, mainly from South Africa, Industry Minister Mike Bimha said on Wednesday. June 22, 2016 In "News" The U.S. urged Zimbabwe’s leaders to hold “free, fair and inclusive elections” as it offered congratulations on the resignation of long-time president Robert Mugabe. November 21, 2017 In "Politics"