The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said that the impeachment of the Deputy Governor of Kogi, Mr Simeon Achuba is illegal. The party stated this in a statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan on Saturday in Abuja. Achuba was on Friday impeached by the Kogi House of Assembly on the recommendations of the Judicial Panel of Inquiry that investigated allegations of gross misconduct levelled against him. Ologbondiyan said that removing Achuba via the unconstitutional method and in total disregard to the verdict of the judicial panel was, in itself, a gross misconduct and grave Constitutional violation. “The PDP, however, alerts that the next victim of such underhand methods would be the state assembly itself since there was no way the governor would win the Nov. 16 election.” Ologbondiyan said that the action of the Assembly had further reduced Kogi to a “butt of jokes” among compatriots in other states of the federation.
“Nigeria is a nation governed by laws and nobody, no matter the desperation, should be allowed to turn it, or any part thereof, to the Banana Republic,” the PDP scribe said. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate for November 16 election in Kogi State Musa Wada, has described impeachment of the state Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba, by the State House of Assembly as illegal and undemocratic. Wada stated this in a statement issued by the Deputy Director, Public Communications… October 19, 2019 In "News" Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Elder Simon Achuba, has been impeached by the State House of Assembly on the recommendations of the Judicial Panel of Inquiry that investigated allegations of gross misconduct levelled against him. October 18, 2019 In "News" Kogi State House of Assembly has impeached the deputy governor of the state, Simon Achuba. House majority leader informed journalists of the impeachment on Friday. Achuba had accused the governor of the state, Yahaya Bello, of being after his life. He alleged that Bello had sent gunmen to kill him,… October 18, 2019 In "News"