Twin sisters Hermon and Heroda Berhane love dancing but can’t hear the music because they’re both deaf, so the invention of a jacket with sensors that enables them to feel the different sounds has transformed their nights out in London clubs. The “Sound Shirt”, created by London-based fashion company CuteCircuit, has 16 sensors embedded in its fabric, so wearers can feel violins on their arms, for example, while drums beat on their backs. The Berhane twins, who lost their hearing at a young age, say modeling the shirts has given them a brand new experience. “It’s almost like feeling the depth of the music,” says Hermon. “It just feels as though we can move along with it.” Francesca Rosella, co-founder, and chief creative officer of CuteCircuit, which designs fashion wearable technology, said the shirts allowed deaf people to feel the music through sensations. “Inside the shirt – that, by the way, is completely textiles, there are no wires inside, so we’re only using smart fabrics – we have a combination of microelectronics … very thin and flexible, and conductive fabrics,” she said. “All these little electronic motors are connected with these conductive fabrics so that the garment is soft and stretchable.” Sound Shirts don’t come cheap, as they are expected to go on sale at more than 3,000 pounds ($3,673), but Heroda believes it’s a price worth paying for deaf people who enjoy music as much as she and her sister do. “I think it could definitely change our lives,” she said. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Thursday the 25th of June 2009 will go down as one date many will not forget in a hurry. It was the day the lights deemed and the curtains dropped as the undisputed king of pop music, Michael Joseph Jackson, passed on in California. He was 50 years old. More… July 5, 2009 In "Allure" The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, on Thursday in Abuja said that military veterans can still contribute meaningfully to national security and development. Olonisakin also said that the retirees could play a role in the efforts to “checkmate various divisive tendencies that constantly threaten’’ the nation’s corporate… October 10, 2019 In "News" Getting eleven of Nigeria's hip-hop stars under one roof wasn't going to be an easy task. But I thought because they were all under Storm Records management, we could route them in for a photo shoot and feature. How wrong! It was a Herculean task! If it's not South Africa… January 16, 2011 In "Allure"