All evicted housemates were surprised guests at the final part of the ongoing BBNaija season four. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the final five – Mercy, Mike, Omashola, Seyi and Frodd – were shocked when they saw their former housemates in the party room. The party, with two Disc Jockeys and musical performance, had a snag as evicted housemates could see and hear the finalists but could not make physical contact because of a glass barrier. The barrier prevented couples in the house, Mercy and Ike, and Frodd and Esther from touching each other and dancing together as usual. Housemates were dressed in outfits from Ochulo and rocked the glitz and glam themed party with Mercy and Mike leading the trail in their sparkly outfits. NAN reports that viewers took to social media to applaud the show organisers for putting together “the best Saturday night party ever.” @Joey_mokene said, “All I saw was Ike and Mercy blowing kisses to each other, thank you Biggie party was lit.” @Bulletproof said, “I swear…. the best of all parties. I miss those beautiful faces. I can’t wait for the grand finale today.” @Jenjen_lively tweeted, “Biggie you finally killed us yesterday, where else can we see the pepper himself if not Biggie, awwwww, well done to all the organisers, you guys really killed it.” @Enblessed tweeted, “Biggie burst my brain. The party was a bomb. Thank you, Biggie.” NAN reports that the grand finale will hold on Sunday and only one housemate out of the final five will walk away with N60 million worth of prizes. Vanguard Nigerians have continued to express mixed reactions over the surprise eviction of housemate, Diane Russet, from BBNaija Season Four show. October 1, 2019 In "Entertainment" Joe Abdallah and Ede Nkechiyere aka Enkay have been evicted from the ongoing fourth season of the Big Brother Naija show. August 18, 2019 In "News" Housemates hosted the first drama-free Saturday party in the ongoing BBNaija fourth season. September 1, 2019 In "Entertainment"