Saad al-Hariri, the Lebanese Prime Minister on Tuesday promised to tender his government’s resignation to the Lebanese President Michel Aoun in response to the protests, saying he had “reached a dead end”. Lebanon has been gripped by unprecedented nationwide anti-government protests. Hariri called on all Lebanese to protect civil peace. The Lebanese president has previously invited the invited protesters for a dialogue to find the best solution for saving the country from financial collapse and suggested a government reshuffle was on the table. In a televised address to the nation, Aoun promised he would fight state corruption as demanded by hundreds of thousands of protesters. He said there was “a need to review the current government”. Aoun said he would back new laws aimed at fighting corruption, including proposals for laws that would lift bank secrecy and scrap immunity from presidents, ministers, and MPs, moves that could pave the way for investigations. Positioning himself as in solidarity with protest grievances, he said corruption had “eaten us to the bone.” “Your shouts will not be wasted,” said Aoun. “My call to demonstrators: I am ready to meet your representatives that carry your concerns to listen to your specific demands. You will hear from us about our fears over financial collapse,” said Aoun. “We will discuss what we can do together to achieve your objectives without causing collapse and chaos and open a constructive dialogue that can lead to a constructive result and define options that will lead to the best results.” “Dialogue is always the best for salvation. I am waiting for you.” [Reuters] Vanguard News Nigeria. Lebanese Prime Minister Saad al-Hariri agreed on Sunday a package of reforms with government partners to ease an economic crisis that has sparked protests aimed at ousting a ruling elite seen as riddled with corruption and cronyism. Officials told Reuters the agreement was reached as hundreds of thousands of protesters… October 21, 2019 In "Foreign" Saad Al-Hariri attended independence day celebrations in Beirut on Wednesday after returning to Lebanon for the first time since resigning as prime minister in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia. November 22, 2017 In "News" Lebanese President Michel Aoun said on Thursday that he was ready for dialogue with protesters to find the best solution for saving the country from financial collapse and suggested a government reshuffle was on the table. Protests expressing outrage with a ruling elite they accuse of corruption and calling for… October 24, 2019 In "Foreign"