Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, and Isoko Ethnic Nationality Movement, IENM, in Delta State, yesterday, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for transmitting to the Senate the list of nominees on Niger Delta Development Commussion, NDDC, Board for approval.   HOSCON under the leadership of Dr Mike Emu saiid: ” Host communities believe that sending their names for screening and possible confirmation is proof that light will always shine over darkness no matter how.”  National director of publicity of the group, Okakuro Monday Whiskey, in a statement, asserted: “The President must take a step further by ensuring that the proposed forensic probe is not a smokescreen. It should be thorough and daring and ensure that all those who have soiled their hands are properly brought to book no matter how highly placed such individuals might be.”   “The Pius Odubu/Bernard Okumagba – led board must see the pains of the region as their pain.They must appreciate the huge fight of the people, who against all odds defended them even when their lives were being threatened by forces of darkness.They must work to put their opposition to shame and promote the Federal Government development plans through the Nddc platform,” the group added.  The Isoko people under the auspices of  Isoko Ethnic Nationality Movement also expressed profound appreciation to President Buhari and Deputy President of the Senate, distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege over the appointment of two eminent Deltans,  Olorogun Bernard Okumagba,  who is the Managing Director and Prophet Jones Erue, Hon. Commissioner representing Delta State in the 16 -member NDDC board.   President of the group, Mr Goddy Ewerode, said:  “Isoko people are immensely grateful to President Buhari  Senator Omo-Agege for considering both Olorogun Okumagba and Prophet  Erue worthy for appointment into the board,  which has the potential to fast-track the rapid development of not just the Isoko nation, but Delta State and Niger Delta in general. ” Vanguard News By Emma Amaize, Warri The Host Communities of Nigeria, HOSCON, has said it is inappropriate for Governors of South-South states, who they accused of mismanaging 13 percent Derivation Fund,  to tell President Muhammadu Buhari how to appoint people on the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC Board. National Director of Media… October 21, 2019 In "News" MEMBERS of the All Progressive Congress, APC from Itsekiri and Isoko ethnic oil nationalities in Delta State are furious at the party’s nomination of Adjogbe Ajenakevwe, an Urhobo, as Executive Director Projects, EDP, on the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, and forwarding of his name to the… July 30, 2016 In "News" Host Communities of Nigeria, Producing Oil and Gas, HOSCON, yesterday, disclosed that international oil companies, IOC, operating in Nigeria owe oil producing communities over $12 billion, being penalty for flaring gas in their areas of operations. December 21, 2018 In "Business"