The National Chairman, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Uche Secondus has commended Nigerians for their commitment and support to the party and democracy. Secondus in a statement issued by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi on Wednesday in Abuja, said that the commitment of Nigerians to democracy and its tenets in spite of inhibiting factors was worthy of emulation and highly commendable. “We thank you for your support for PDP, for your commitment to democracy.”
Secondus reacting to the Wednesday’s Supreme Court ruling striking out the appeal of PDP and its Presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, said that the nation’s apex court had ruled but the final judgment comes from God almighty. He urged Nigerians to leave the Supreme Court judgement to God saying, “leave it to God the ultimate judge.” Secondus also commended the press for their commitment to democracy and good governance in Nigeria. He urged them not to relent in their roles of holding politicians accountable to the people. Secondus, however, told the people to remain resolute in their prayers to God since the country was in an untidy state that only God could bail her out. Vanguard ...as AGF says it is a clear testimony to the supremacy of democracy that democracy has eventually succeeded By David O Royal While responding to the Supreme court final ruling on Wednesday, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) national chairman, Uche Secondus stated that If Supreme Court of seven justices says… October 30, 2019 In "News" Hours after spitting fire over flawed elective national convention, Chief Raymond Dokpesi, founder of Daar Communication, who contested the PDP National Chairmanship position and lost, has congratulated the winner, Prince Uche Secondus. December 10, 2017 In "News" Mr Emeka Ihedioha, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Imo, said his faith remained strong in Nigeria, its democracy and institutions, in spite of the Supreme Court judgment that removed him as governor of the state. Ihedioha stated this on Saturday when he received members of the PDP National Working… January 18, 2020 In "News"