Exactly 34 years after the University of Benin got the first female Vice-Chancellor in the history of Nigerian tertiary education, another female vice-chancellor has been appointed to run the affairs of the university. Prof.  Lillian Salami was confirmed the Vice-Chancellor of UNIBEN on Saturday and she is the first alumnus of the institution to hold the position. The Public Relations Officer of UNIBEN, Dr. Michael Osasuyi, confirmed the appointment, saying Prof. Salami would take over from Prof. Faraday Orunwese whose tenure ends on December 2. The state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has already congratulated Prof. Salami who hails from Edo State and was born in Jos, Plateau State, on August 8, 1956. She was appointed Senior Lecturer in UNIBEN in 1994 and rose to the rank of a professor in 2005. Prof. Salami is the Director-General/Chief Executive Officer, National Institute for Educational Planning and Administration in Ondo State. Governor Obaseki said in a statement that he was confident that the new vice-chancellor would deploy her wealth of experience in lifting the fortunes of the great citadel of learning and described her emergence as another great milestone in the history of the university.  Vanguard  By Alemma-Ozioruva Aliu - Benin City Thirty-four years after the University of Benin got the first female Vice Chancellor in a Nigerian University, another female, Professor (Mrs ) Lillian Salami has been appointed Vice Chancellor of the university. She is also said to be the first alumnus of the University… October 26, 2019 In "Education" By Gabriel Enogholase - Benin State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has congratulated Prof. Lilian Imuetinyan Salami on her emergence as the 10th substantive Vice Chancellor of the University of Benin (UNIBEN). In a statement in Benin, the governor said he was confident that Prof. Salami would deploy her wealth of… October 26, 2019 In "Education" Prof. Faraday Osasere Orumwense, on November 30, 2014, assumed office as the 9th Vice-Chancellor of UNIBEN. Prior to his appointment, he had over two decades of experience in university administration, the last being his appointment as pioneer Rector of Efo State owned Institute of Management and Technology, Usen. April 15, 2018 In "Viewpoint"