Seven persons were confirmed dead yesterday in an accident involving the vehicle of the advance team of Governor Godwin Obaseki near Ehor in Uhnmwonde local government area of Edo state. The dead included five adults and two children while three other survivors were taken to the Central Hospital where they are currently being stabilised The governor’s advance team were said to be travelling in a Toyota Hilux van to Ekpoma for the Ambrose Alli University (AAU) convocation ceremony when they had a head-on collision with an Audi car the victims were said to be travelling in. It was learnt that a good Samaritan rushed the survivors and the dead to the First SAVAN Centre at the hospital yesterday and a source confirmed that accident victims were brought in but declined to give details. The State Commissioner of Police, Danmallam Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, described it as “very unfortunate”. Edo Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Mr Anthony Oko, who confirmed the incident said the two children died on their way to the hospital while the driver of the Hilux van had injuries. How Obaseki has increased Edo IGR, council chairman Edo Ex-lawmaker urges Obaseki to release constituency projects fund He said the driver of the Audi car ran into a pothole and lost control before it rammed into the hilux van. An Edo government official who pleaded anonymity said the protocol officials did not suffer many injuries. Vanguard News Nigeria. EDO State Government, Wednesday, said Governor Godwin Obaseki was not involved in the accident involving the press unit bus on Ugbowo Road in Benin-City, in which six persons sustained injuries. March 14, 2018 In "News" GOVERNOR Ibrahim Shema of Katsina State, yesterday, survived a fatal accident that claimed the life of his Aide-de-Camp, ASP Aminu Ibrahim and seven other persons. March 16, 2011 In "News" It was a harvest of deaths, weekend, as about 24 people reportedly lost their lives in different accidents across the country, with many sustaining various degrees of injuries. January 1, 2017 In "News"