Four people have been killed and six are injured after a shooting outside a nightclub in New York on Saturday. The deceased are four men, who were pronounced dead at the scene of Triple A Aces Private & Social Rental Space when emergency responders arrived to the Weeksville neighborhood in Brooklyn around 7am. A woman and a man were injured after being shot in the leg, and another of the reported 10 shot was a man who was injured in the arm. A firearm was reportedly recovered and two people were taken in for questioning in the early stages of the investigation as multiple outlets reported that the incident was sparked by an altercation. However police said no arrests have been made at the scene, which was three blocks away from the NYPD 77th Precinct. It was also reported that law enforcement was investigating whether the incident was connected to a hip-hop festival taking place this weekend. It’s unclear which festival cops referred to but Rolling Loud is scheduled on Saturday and Sunday at Citi Field, Queens with the likes of A$AP Rocky, Travis Scott and Tyga on the line-up. Some after-parties have been organized around the city, the locations of some were revealed to ticket purchasers via email. Polcie received reports of gunshots fired around 6.55am and firefighters initially responded to the scene at 7.06am. All victims of the incident at 74 Utica Avenue, near Atlantic Ave, were being transported to Kings County Hospital and Brookdale University Hospital Medical Center with serious but non-life-threatening injuries. A witness at the scene was heard saying: ‘That dude there in the ambulance caught it in the arm. He’s lucky.’  A woman had been taken away from the scene in handcuffs, according to a witness reaction. The Citizen user’s video also shows police with a man in handcuffs. The witness filming the video is heard saying: ‘They must have gotten away in the car that ran that light.’ Cops are carrying out a hospital canvass around the city to determine if there are any more shooting victims. It’s unclear what may have sparked the shooting. A gunman opened fire at a packed nightclub in southern Germany early Sunday, killing one and wounding four before being shot by police, authorities said, ruling out a terror attack. July 30, 2017 In "News" Four people have been killed in a shooting at a bar in Kansas City in the United States Midwestern state of Kansas. Five other people were wounded during the incident at a members-only bar in the city centre, local police say. They believe that "an earlier dispute occurred inside the… October 6, 2019 In "Foreign" A gunman killed six people and seriously injured two others in the northern US state of Michigan, police said Sunday, after arresting an armed 45-year-old white male for the crime. February 21, 2016 In "News"