Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state says he is determined to fish out ghost workers from the state civil service. Mohammed stated this while swearing-in a newly appointed commissioner, Acting Head of Service, Permanent Secretaries and other political appointees in Bauchi on Wednesday. Mohammed said government would not sit and watch some people collecting double salaries in the state civil service. “Government will use all machinery at its disposal to fish out those responsible for this act and bring them to book,” he said. According to him, the state is faced with large number of unemployed youths who need to be engaged in the civil service. The governor described the ceremony as part of collective resolve to build viable machinery of government capable of meeting challenges of repositioning the state. He said the appointments were aimed at consolidating his administration’s achievements in various sectors.  Mohammed who said that civil service is the veritable machinery for the execution of government programmes observed that the service needed to be dynamic to keep pace with time and modernity. He pledged his administration’s determination to ensure that motivations were provided to the workforce through appropriate incentives and welfare packages. He advised the new commissioner, Alhaji Adamu Soro, to make the principle of equity, fairness, justice, prudence and accountability his watch words. He urged him to shun corruption and wastage of resources. The governor noted that his choice was informed by his track records of achievements, hard work and commitment towards uplifting the living condition of the people. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Alhaji Abubakar Magaji was sworn in as Acting Head of Service of the state among others. Vanguard Nigeria News By Charles Agwam Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed of Bauchi has sworn in a newly appointed commissioner, Adamu Manu, the Acting Head of Civil Service Ahmed Ma'aji and several other appointees. Speaking at the occasion held in Bauchi on Wednesday, the governor described the swearing-in of the appointees as part… October 30, 2019 In "Politics" By Charles Agwam Bauchi state governor, Bala Mohammed has constituted a 17-man committee to investigate the alleged salary payment of ghost workers in the state. The Senior Special Assistant on Media to the governor, Muktar Gidado who disclosed this while addressing newsmen in Bauchi on Monday, said Senator Adamu Gumba… October 29, 2019 In "News" Bauchi state Governor, Sen. Bala Mohammed has revealed that despite non-recruitment into the state civil service during the four-year tenure of his predecessor, Abubakar Mohammed, over 41, 000 ghost workers have now been uncovered in the state's payroll. October 27, 2019 In "News"