The All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the Federal Government not to release N7 billion Value Added Tax (VAT) refund to Bayelsa Government. A statement by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena in Abuja on Thursday, said that this would prevent vote-buying before and during Nov. 16 governorship election in the state. He said that if the money was withheld, it would prevent the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led-government from diverting the money for the election of its governorship candidate. “Therefore, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Hajia Zainab Ahmed, should delay approval of an N7 billion VAT refund to the Bayelsa Government until after the  Nov. 16 governorship election. “Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa has committed to a commercial bank to give him the N7 billion with an agreement that the ministry will, in turn, pay the money to them,” he said. He said that if the money was released to the outgoing government in the state, it would not serve the purpose it was meant to achieve. Nabena alleged that Dickson has been trying to raise money through the diversion of state funds to fund the election of the governorship candidate of PDP Vanguard The All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate an alleged diversion of N17.5 billion by the Bayelsa Government. October 20, 2019 In "News" ABUJA: Ahead of the November 16 Governorship Election in Bayelsa state, Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress APC, Mr. Yekini Nabena, has called on the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC and the Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit NFIU to urgently investigate and freeze bank accounts belonging to… October 20, 2019 In "News" Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress APC, Yekini Nabena, has lashed out at former President Goodluck Jonathan, describing him as 'a push and start President' who never won any election even in his home state of Bayelsa. August 8, 2019 In "News"