President Donald Trump’s administration on Tuesday blocked the U.S. ambassador to the European Union from giving testimony in the House of Representatives’ impeachment investigation of the Republican president. Gordon Sondland, a Trump donor who started his diplomatic job in July, was due to meet behind closed doors with staff of three Democratic-led House committees Tuesday morning over the role he may have played in the president’s efforts to get Ukraine to probe former Vice President Joe Biden, a political rival. Sondland had apparently agreed to testify without a subpoena. Through his lawyer on Tuesday, he said he hoped “the issues raised by the State Department that preclude his testimony will be resolved promptly.” “He stands ready to testify on short notice, whenever he is permitted to appear,” Sondland’s lawyer, Robert Luskin, said in a statement. Representatives for the White House and the State Department could not be immediately reached to comment. The impeachment probe is focusing on a whistleblower’s allegations that Trump used U.S. military aid to secure a promise from Ukraine’s president to investigate Biden, a leading candidate for the 2020 Democratic presidential nomination, and his son Hunter, who was on the board of a Ukrainian energy firm. Sondland was a key witness for the House Foreign Affairs, Intelligence and Oversight Committees, whose staff had been expected to ask him why he became involved in dealings with Ukraine, which is not a member of the EU. Trump has derided the impeachment inquiry and denied he did anything wrong in a July 25 phone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy in which Trump pushed for an investigation of Biden and his son. “I would love to send Ambassador Sondland, a really good man and great American, to testify, but unfortunately he would be testifying before a totally compromised kangaroo court, where Republicans’ rights have been taken away, and true facts are not allowed out for the public….to see,” Trump wrote on Twitter. ….to see. Importantly, Ambassador Sondland’s tweet, which few report, stated, “I believe you are incorrect about President Trump’s intentions. The President has been crystal clear: no quid pro quo’s of any kind.” That says it ALL! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 8, 2019  According to text messages released by House committee leaders last week, Sondland was heavily involved in contacts with Zelenskiy as he sought a meeting with Trump, and Ukrainian officials expressed concern at the administration’s decision to block nearly $400 million in U.S. military assistance for Kiev. In one of the texts, for example, Sondland emphasized that Trump “really wants the deliverable.” Representative Adam Schiff, the Democratic chairman of the House intelligence committee, which is spearheading the impeachment probe, said the State Department was withholding messages from Sondland that are relevant to the inquiry. Schiff told reporters the failure to allow Sondland to testify and turn over his text messages or emails was further evidence of obstruction. Following the allegations that Trump pressured Zelenskiy to investigate Biden while withholding the military aid, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced a formal impeachment investigation last month. Concerns about the July 25 call, and possible Trump threats to Ukraine, came to the attention of Congress in a report by a whistleblower. On Sunday, lawyers said a second whistleblower had come forward to substantiate that complaint. Source: Reuters Vanguard News A second whistleblower has come forward about President Donald Trump’s attempts to get the Ukrainian president to investigate a political rival, lawyers for the official said on Sunday. October 6, 2019 In "News" US President Donald Trump punched back Friday against James Comey, accusing the ousted FBI director of lying about their private conversations -- and saying he is "100 percent" willing to testify under oath. June 9, 2017 In "News" The United States House of Representatives’ commenced an impeachment probe into the country's president Donald Trump call to Ukrainian president. The House probe came following an allegation Mr Trump requested the help of the Ukrainian government in probing his democrat-opponent and one-time vice president, Joe Biden and his son. The… October 1, 2019 In "Foreign"