The Enugu State Government says it is exploring new avenues to raise its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to an annual threshold of N30billion from 2019. The state’s Commissioner for Information, Mr Chidi Aroh, disclosed this on Friday in Enugu while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the State Executive Council meeting in Enugu. Aroh said that government was pleased with the progress made by the state Board of Internal Revenue (BIR) especially in the area of IGR which had risen above N20bilion. We’ll have a ranch in Ogun soon, says Abiodun “The IGR of the state has been doing well since 2016 but we are looking at new strategies that will increase it. “We are looking at the possibility of getting an IGR that will cross N30billion threshold at the end of the year,” he said. The commissioner said that the council had received a briefing from the chairman of the BIR on new strategies to shore up the revenue of the state. Aroh said that after consideration on the report, an adjournment on the matter was proposed to enable members further review some of the strategies. He said that the council also considered a report on the review of charges and levies imposed by all revenue-generating agencies in the state. He said that the council did not take a final decision on the report to allow members and relevant Ministries, Departments and Agencies in Enugu to make considered inputs before. Tyoden, Plateau deputy gov assures of commitment to reduce poverty Aroh said that the council was committed to ensuring that any decision taken is in the best interest of the state and the people considering current economic realities in the country. (NAN), Vanguard Recently, the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State announced an impressive increase in the state’s Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) receipts through the sterling performance of the Enugu State Internal Revenue Service, under the chairmanship of Mr. Emeka Odo. August 12, 2017 In "News" Enugu State Government has discovered and weeded out 6,280 ghost workers and pensioners from the nominal rolls of local governments councils and its Pensions Board. Part of the discovery was a fallout of the committee that recently disbursed the first tranche of the Paris Club Refund, which was used to… August 6, 2017 In "News" Benue state government has promised to facilitate moves to grant the Benue State Internal Revenue Service, BIRS, autonomy even as it commended the steps taken so far by the Executive Chairman of the Service, Mr. Terzungwe Atser to increase the Internally Generated Revenue, IGR, of the state. January 20, 2019 In "Business"