The deputy minister of Trade and Industry, Carlos Ahenkorah in a report has said that Ghana’s Trade and Economics needs Nigeria more than Nigeria needs Ghana for its economic survival. This was in response to the declaration of Ghana’s Trade Union to boycott Nigeria’s products in retaliation of the action of the Nigerian federal government to close its land borders with neighbouring countries including Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east and Niger in the north. “The best way to solve this problem is not to pay Nigeria back or have some countermeasure, but coach them into understanding that look, hey we are all losing, and we need you, we need each other. But I can tell you without blinking an eye that economically, trade wise, we need Nigeria more than they need us, <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The minister stated that a country like Nigeria can not be intimidated by any of Ghana’s Trade sanctions since they are the better recipient of African products. “If our gargantuan transformation agenda is going to work, we need markets to offload our products. This off-takers cannot be blocked.” Mr Ahenkorah said in JoyNews’ PM Express show. Vanguard previously reported that In a similar development, Kasapreko Company Limited, Ghanian’s largest local beverage manufacturer has reported it has lost $2 million in revenue since the closure of Nigeria’s borders. The company is the producer of Alomo Bitter, a product widely consumed by Nigerians. In response to Nigeria’s Federal Government border closure due to smuggling activities, the Greater Accra Regional Secretary of Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA), David Kwadwo Amoateng on Ghana’s Adom FM morning show claimed that Dangote cement had taken over Ghana’s market while local ones from GHACEM are suffering. In protest, he said: “Let’s boycott Nigerian products as payback to their government’s action. How can we be slaves in our own country?” The President of GUTA however said; “Nigeria recognises that it is not been bound by any protocol that is signed. It also showed that the ECOWAS protocol that we here adore so much is not sycophant…Nigeria is showing the way that we have to clear the mess that the ECOWAS protocol has brought to bear.” Also, Republic of the Niger traders have lamented the effect of Nigeria’s borders closure on their business performance, saying they are angry at the decision. A Niger trader, speaking in a Deutsche Welle (dw) short documentary said “In the name of Allah, this closure of the Nigeria border is causing the most possible harms. The business that allows traders to earn their daily living has gone to a standstill. Vanguard News Nigeria. THE government of Ghana has urged Nigeria to remove all bottlenecks, extortions, and harassments across the borders to enhance intra-Africa trade. November 13, 2017 In "Business" The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Olusegun Aganga, yesterday, disclosed that Nigeria had recorded over $3billion worth of investments in the sugar subsection since the implementation of the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan, NIRP. August 29, 2014 In "Business" The Federal Government has succeeded in ending reported hostilities against Nigerian traders in Ghana by securing a reversal of the Ghanaian government’s closure of over 40 shops belonging to Nigerian traders. The shops were closed on February 6, 2013 for alleged violation of Ghana’s laws on trading by foreigners. April 12, 2013 In "Business"