The Ile-Oodua, ancestral palace of the Ooni of Ile-Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi was full to capacity, with not just mere dignitaries, but the cream- de-cream of the Yoruba race, as he crowned Sir Adebutu Kensington, as the fourth Odole of Oodua after, Chiefs Obafemi Awolowo, G.O.K Ajayi and Oranmiyan himaelf, who premiered the title. Prior to his coronation, the Odole-elect, Sir Kessington has proceeded to Oranmiyan shrine known as IGBO EEDE and Ogun shrine for traditional rites during which he was blessed by the Isoros ahead his coronatio by the Arole Oodua, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II. The new Odole then returned to the palace, where the process peaked, as the Ooni with the assistance of palace chiefs crowned him and was presented staff of office, amidst the dignitaries, led by the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo. Delivering the message of the President Muhammadu Buhari, Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola described the new Odole as worthy of the title, saying his humanitarian gesture is second to none. He described Yoruba race as a sophisticated one, hence, the Ooni would not just pick anyone for the title but someone who can promote unity among the race. President Buhari said previous holders of the title, especially late Chief Obafemi Awolowo strive very much to bring unity among the different ethnic groups in Nigeria, charging new Odole to do more to enhance unity among Nigerians. He charged him to chair an endowment fund in any university for the promotion of Yoruba language, saying the Ooni has always championing the promotion of Yoruba cultural heritage and tradition. The President also tasked Yoruba monarchs on the need to be more united and to always be advocate of peace in the country. He called for a more united Nigeria and tasked Yoruba leaders to always ensure that the interest of the of race is regularly promoted. He commended the dignitaries from all works of life for honouring the patriarch of the family, saying it is a challenge for it to serve humanity more. Traditional rulers across the southwest also add colour to the occasion, while King Sunny Ade entertained the guests  By Shina Abubakar, Osogbo Gaming magnate, Sir Adebutu Kensington, has hinted that he may not accept any other traditional title after his coronation as the Odole Oodua by the Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Ogunwusi. Kensington said this on Thursday during an interactive session with journalists in company of the planning… October 5, 2019 In "News" The Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has congratulated Sir Adebutu Adebunkunola Kesington on the conferment of the Odole Oodua title on him by the Ooni of Ife, Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II. The Governor, in a statement, said Kesington, the brain behind the popular Baba Ijebu lotto, among… October 19, 2019 In "News" The ancient city of Ile Ife was agog, yesterday, as the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, performed for the first time the symbolic trip from Ile Oodua, his palace to Oke Mogun shrine, to mark this year’s Olojo Festival. October 17, 2016 In "News"