Tanzania’s highest court has upheld a landmark 2016 ruling that raised the minimum age of marriage to 18. The Supreme Court of Appeals’ decision, announced Wednesday, was greeted by child welfare and women’s advocates as a win. “This was a victory not only for girl children but also for Tanzanians in general,” said Ann Sangai of the Tanzania Gender Networking Program (TGNP), which advocates for girls and women’s rights.   A legal challenge led Tanzania’s high court to strike down two sections of the country’s marriage law in 2016, effectively raising a girl’s minimum marriageable age to 18 from as young as 14. But the Eastern African country’s attorney general appealed the decision last year on the grounds that the lower minimum age actually protected girls who became pregnant out of wedlock. Human rights analysts say the court’s decision to uphold the law benefits millions of youths, especially those in traditional communities or rural, disadvantaged areas who are most vulnerable to early marriage.  The Tanzanian advocacy group Msichana Initiative led the effort to raise the minimum age to 18. One of its lawyers, Alex Mngongolwa, told VOA that permitting marriage at an earlier age contravened the country’s constitution and disrespected international conventions ratified by Tanzania’s Parliament.  A growing body of research indicates that early marriage — sometimes prompted by pregnancy —  disrupts a girl’s education, limiting prospects not only for her but also for her family and community.  This report originated in VOA’s Swahili Service. Vanguard Nigeria News Many days after the news broke, reactions to the proposed Child Marriage Law show no signs of letting up. From clerics to educationists, lawyers and of course, activists, opinions are divided. While some believe the customs and traditions of northern senators agitating for child marriage should be taken into consideration,… July 27, 2013 In "Special Report" For decades, despite laws against child marriage, the practice remains widespread in Nigeria. According to the 2017 States of the Children’s Health, globally, one in every five girls is married before her 18th birthday. November 11, 2018 In "News" Turkey's religious affairs state agency came under heavy criticism on Thursday from the main opposition party after it reportedly said girls as young as nine could marry under Islamic law. January 4, 2018 In "News"