John Obi Mikel has revealed he joked with Frank Lampard about becoming his assistant at Chelsea. The former Derby County boss was appointed the Blues manager following the departure of Italian tactician Maurizio Sarri in June. Mikel and Lampard were teammates at Chelsea between 2006 and 2014 and helped the Blues win several laurels including the 2012 Champions League trophy. Mikel spoke about the leadership role of Lampard and John Terry during their playing time with the London outfit and backs the 41-year-old to be a success at Stamford Bridge. “I am very happy for Frank. When we were playing at Chelsea, we are expecting that John Terry and he would be very good managers, but we were expecting Terry to reach that level first. But Lampard made a big step,” Mikel told 61 Saat. “His arrival at Chelsea means the club are caring for their legends. I joked with him after the Chelsea move, I want to be his assistant when I retire. “I hope he will be successful at Chelsea for many more years. I also want to see John Terry in similar jobs in the future because he was our leader on the pitch.” Under Lampard, Chelsea have played eight games won four, drawn two and lost two in the Premier League to place fifth in the log. Mikel, who retired from the Super Eagles after the Africa Cup of Nations, currently plays in the Turkish Super Lig with Trabzonspor. Source: Goal Vanguard News  Nigerian star, John Mikel Obi has revealed that he was consumed with fears on his first day at Chelsea's dressing room becuase of the presence of superstars, such as John Terry, Michael Ballack, Didier Drogba, Michael Essien and Andrily Shevchenko among others. March 15, 2016 In "News" Super Eagles' John Obi Mikel will tomorrow be seeking to add another silverware to his fantastic Chelsea career when the Blues confront Liverpool in the final of the Football Association (FA) Cup at the Wembley Stadium. It is the 131st FA Cup final. May 4, 2012 In "Sports" Frank Lampard admitted on Saturday he would relish a return to Chelsea as a player and is keen to rejoin the Premier League leaders in some capacity even if he is not offered a deal. December 24, 2016 In "Sports"