With 40 years difference in age, Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels, has been repeatedly vilified by all and sundry over her marriage to billionaire businessman and lawyer, Prince Ned Nwoko. And people’s shock over the marriage turned to bewilderment when the then-teenager, now 20 years was initiated into the billionaire’s traditional cult for women, the Aniocha’s women’s cult which is presumed to keep a woman away from ever marrying another man or engaging in any extramarital or face some dire consequences. Here’s is the excerpt of her response to questions sent to her in Dubai through her media manager, Ifetayo Adeniyi by Potpourri, shedding light on the initiation and other intimate things about her husband and life. ALSO READ: I’m leaving my husband because he beats, rapes me ― Bose Oladimeji First of all, I will not call it an initiation, it is more like being welcome to womanhood and for you to be part of that group. It’s an elite group, you must be married and be a woman of substance. I will say I’m even privileged to be part of that group. Well, I have never actually liked hanging out with my age mates. I go for people that are far older than me so I could learn something from them or people who are bellow so I could teach them something and being married to my husband hasn’t stopped me from relating with those people.  His honesty. He’s the most honest person I have ever met. In short, I love his honesty. Business, producing, directing and of course, Hollywood. I can’t think of anything because when I was single, my life was always about acting, schooling and I didn’t have time for a party but now that I’m married I could go out for parties. I can even say I’m more privileged to have more opportunities now to do things than when I was single. The question is, will he ask me to leave acting? First of all, I never thought about that but the man I married will never ask me to leave what I love. Vanguard Since news of controversial Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels’ romance with billionaire businessman, Prince Ned Nwoko, went viral on the internet, there has been a series of mixed reactions. May 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" The dream of every parent is to see their child marry in their lifetime and same could be said to have rung true for Rita Daniels, mother of teen actress, Regina Daniels who married billionaire politician, Hon. Ned Nwoko recently. June 16, 2019 In "Entertainment" The alleged marriage of the 19 year-old Nollywood actress, Regina Daniels and Ned Nwoko, may be true as both were spotted dancing together in an event anchored by singer Harrysong. April 28, 2019 In "Entertainment"