Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos State has expressed the determination of his administration to revive and boost the production of the N50.3 billion Adiyan Waterworks Phase II project of the state. The project is estimated to supply 70 million gallons of water daily to residents when completed. Sanwo-Olu, who gave the assurance yesterday, after an on the spot assessment of the water plants, said completion of the project would help to address the acute scarcity of potable water as well as poverty among the masses in the state. The governor explained that since access to potable water by the residents remained one of the indices of measuring Sustainable Development Goals, SDGs, his administration would give priority attention to the completion of the project. According to Sanwo-Olu, “This is a 70 million per day water treatment plant when fully completed, meaning 330,000 cubic metric tons per day this would be the biggest of its type anywhere around Nigeria. This project was started a couple of years back by my predecessor, Mr. Babatunde Fashola. “But we are here now and we have seen it. The commitment on our side is to see how we can complete this project on time as much as possible on a budget. “It’s being a very long journey, the contractor is committed to seeing how we can complete this project within 18 months our government commitment is that we will work with them so the contractor Messr Salini Nigeria Ltd, their consultant and the Staff and management staff of Lagos State Water Corporation. “You can imagine if we are able to bring about 70 million gallons of water to the residents additional to what we already have in Lagos. “The production is one stage of it, the second stage of it which we quickly want to award is the reticulation. That is to take the water to almost every part that we desire in the state.  To as far as Lagos Island.” He said his administration will ensure that the water plants are running for the benefit of Lagos residents.   Sanwo-Olu said, “There is an urgent need to make an additional new investment in reviving the water plants to improve the output of clean water production. “Though they have 14 pumps running in Akute, Ogun water intake facility, the state government will build additional pump for Adiyan Water Plant 11 still under construction. “The state government will come out with a robust financial model to change some of the obsolete machines installed over two decades ago.” Vanguard News The Lagos State Government has announced its resolve to complete within 18 months the 70 million-gallon Adiyan Water Project which was abandoned by the previous administration. Gov. Babajide Sanwo-Olu said on Thursday during an inspection of the water works that the contractor handling the project, located in the north-western part… October 11, 2019 In "News" The shortage of water supply currently being experienced by Lagos residents may worsened, as Adiyan and Iju Waterworks have been permanently disconnected from the National grid over an alleged outstanding debt of N53million. July 7, 2019 In "News" e Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) has deployed over 17,000 prepaid meters in its first phase of installing water meters in houses. May 10, 2018 In "News"