More than a dozen people have been killed after an unlicensed gold mine collapsed in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo, the government said. The accident happened at Kampene, some 180km (110 miles) south of Kindu town, Steve Mbikayi, minister of national solidarity and humanitarian action, said on Wednesday. “Fourteen dead, three hospitalised with serious injuries. Search continuing,” Mbikayi wrote on Twitter, giving a provisional toll. A civil society campaigner, Justin Kyanga Asumani, also giving a preliminary toll, said “15 bodies have been recovered, including two women”. He was quoted by the AFP news agency as saying the accident happened at about 2 pm local time, when “dozens of people, including children and pregnant women” were at work on the site. The accident brought renewed attention to the dangers plaguing the resource-rich DRC’s informal mining sector, which has a poor safety record and a history of frequent deadly accidents, Aljazeera reported. In June, more than 40 people died at a copper concession in Kolwezi, in southeastern DRC, that was operated by Kamoto Copper Company, a subsidiary of Swiss giant Glencore. Kyanga said the unlicensed mine in Kampene had been operating for about 10 years, a situation that underscored “the lack of oversight and the inactivity by state bodies”. Vanguard News Nigeria. A doctor in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo is hospitalised with Ebola, and 97 of his contacts have been identified in an area almost entirely surrounded by armed militia, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said on Friday. “It is the first time we have a confirmed case and contacts in… August 24, 2018 In "Health" A grandmother in Uganda has died from Ebola, health officials said Thursday, the second fatality in the country since a major outbreak in Democratic Republic of Congo crossed the border. June 13, 2019 In "Foreign" Confusion around an unlicensed Ebola vaccine being used in the Democratic Republic of Congo is complicating efforts to rein in an outbreak of the deadly virus, Doctors Without Borders warned Thursday. May 24, 2018 In "Health"