The Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, yesterday issued regulations for the operations of indirect participants in payments system in a bid to develop digital financial services  in the country. The apex bank, in a circular to Deposit Money Banks (DMBS), Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) and Other Financial Institutions (OFIs) said that the aim of the regulation, among other things, was to  set out the procedures for effective integration of indirect participants in the payment system in Nigeria. The circular signed by Director Payment System Management Department, CBN, Sam Okojere, stated: “The CBN in furtherance of its mandate for the development of electronic payments in Nigeria, hereby issues the regulations for the operations of indirect participants in the payment system with effect from 11th  November 2019. “The objectives of this regulation shall be to set out the procedures for effective integration of indirect participants in the payments system in Nigeria; standardise the operation of indirect participants in the payments system, taking into cognisance their operational risks;   provide mechanism and framework for the clearing and settlement of indirect participants payment instruments through the direct participating banks; and   strengthen indirect participants for effective contribution to digital financial services in Nigeria. Deploy digital competencies to solve socioeconomic problems-Sterling Bank boss charges CeBIH(Opens in a new browser tab) “Minimum criteria to qualify as an indirect participant, an institution shall have a satisfactory risk-based rating from CBN and secure a letter of recommendation from its direct participating bank, signed by the Chief Risk Officer and an Executive Director of the direct participating bank; and comply with the Nigeria Uniform Bank Account Number (NUBAN) standards components of the Payments System. “Indirect participants may take part in any of the following payments operations: Cheque Clearing; Electronic Fund Transfer, EFT,   and Bulk Payments; Instant Payments; Card Issuance; Card Transaction Acquiring (Automated Teller Machine, Point of Sale, Web, etc.); Portals (e-Reference, Anti-Fraud, e-Signatory, e-Passport, etc.); Bank Verification Number System; and any other component approved by the CBN.” Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has said that mobile payment system will take off in the country by middle of the year.Acting Director, Banking Operations, Mr. Abayomi Atoloye, said this at a workshop on mobile payment regulatory framework dissemination organised by Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA) in Lagos yesterday. January 26, 2010 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has extended the Nigerian Uniform Bank Account Number (NUBAN) scheme meant for banks to Other Financial Institutions (OFIs). November 8, 2018 In "Business" The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Wednesday reiterated the need to secure payment systems in the country stem fraudulent activities in the financial sector. May 10, 2017 In "News"