By Kingsley Omonobi – Abuja The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has commenced a joint counter operation against latest kidnapping in Abuja and its environs. The joint operation comprising the Police and other security agencies is also being extended to other identified black spots within the Federal Capital Territory. A statement by DSP Anjuguri Manzah, Spokesman of FCT Command said, “The operation is aimed at rescuing hostages, arresting the suspects and permanently checkmating the emerging security concerns especially around Kuje-Robuchi axis. Key into CBN’s AADS, FG tells state governments(Opens in a new browser tab) “As the security agencies are working assiduously to rescue the victims, residents are enjoined to be calm and support the ongoing operation with useful information. “The police are reassuring the public that it will not relent on its effort until the activities of these hoodlums and other crimes are permanently checked. “Further steps are also being made to engage relevant stakeholders in various communities as part of renewed effort to check this crime.”  By Kingsley Omonobi The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command has commenced a joint counter operation against latest kidnapping in Abuja and its environs. The joint operation comprising the Police and other security agencies is also being extended to other identified black spots within the Federal Capital Territory. A statement… October 11, 2019 In "News" Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have killed one person and abducted a Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) officer, with his two children at Dafara community, in Kuje Area Council, FCT. The District Head of the community, Makeri Joseph, told newsmen in Kuje on Thursday that the incident happened… October 10, 2019 In "News" As it confirms another kidnap case By Joseph Erunke The Nigerian Police has confirmed the report that two persons have again, been kidnapped in Abuja but kept mum on the identities of the victim who were reported to its personnel. The FCT Police Command, in a statement through ASP Yusuf… October 28, 2019 In "News"