Presidency has debunked the canard making rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari would return for a third term. “President Buhari is a democrat. He respects the constitution. Any activity aimed at altering the two-term limit will not succeed and shall never have his time nor support”, part of the statement read. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, made the clarification in a statement in Abuja. His words, “The Presidency wishes to correct internet-based gossip and un-informed media commentary regarding presidential term limits, given credence by so-called support groups, staging street demonstrations asking President Muhammadu Buhari to do a third term. “There are no circumstances – nor set of circumstances – under which President Buhari may seek to amend the Constitution regarding the two-term  limit on holding office as President. “President Buhari intends to serve his full second elected term in office, ending 2023 – and then there shall be a general election in which he will not be a candidate. “There is not even the faintest possibility that this will change. It is important to note that there was a past attempt to change the constitution to allow for the-then incumbent president to stand for a third term. “That attempt was wrong, unconstitutional – and rightly rebuffed. No such attempt will happen under this President. “President Buhari is a democrat. He respects the constitution. Any activity aimed at altering the two-term limit will not succeed and shall never have his time nor support.” Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari says he will not seek tenure extension at the end of his 2nd term in office as rumours of a possible spread in the gossip mill. October 1, 2019 In "News" The Presidency Friday debunked the report that Pastor Tunde Bakare and the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun met behind closed doors with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. July 13, 2018 In "News" It was not too long ago just a whispering campaign by some Igbo Buharists that the quickest way to achieve the dream of enthroning a Nigerian president from the Southeast was to ensure President Muhammadu Buhari returns for a second term April 13, 2018 In "News"