Iran has released an Australian-British blogger and her fiance from detention after three months, the Australian foreign minister said on Saturday. Foreign Minister Marise Payne said that the couple, Jolie King and Mark Firkin, were on their way home and in “good health and in good spirits.” Iran’s Rouhani says French plan for talks is acceptable(Opens in a new browser tab) She said all charges against them had been dropped. “For Jolie and for Mark, the ordeal they have been through is now over, they are being reunited with their loved ones, which is a source of great relief and joy to everyone,” Ms Payne said. They were held in detention in Tehran for almost three months after being arrested for reportedly flying a drone without a permit. There was no immediate acknowledgment Saturday by Iranian officials or in the country’s state media of the couple’s release. However, that has happened in previous cases. A third Australian, University of Melbourne academic Kylie Moore-Gilbert, is still being imprisoned by Iran after being charged with spying last year. North Korea leader Kim invited Trump to Pyongyang in letter — report(Opens in a new browser tab) Ms Payne said her case was “very complex” as she had been sentenced to 10 years in jail. “We are continuing our discussions with the Iranian government, we don’t accept the charges upon which she was convicted and we will seek to have her returned to Australia,” she said. (NAN) Vanguard A high-profile Australian author and Muslim activist was refused entry to the United States Thursday and put on a plane home after arriving for a speaking engagement, sparking calls for a re-think by border officials. April 12, 2018 In "News" WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is planning to run for election to the Australian Senate, the organisation announced Saturday on Twitter. March 17, 2012 In "News" Rights group Amnesty International slammed Australia on Thursday as Foreign Minister Julie Bishop prepared to launch a bid in New York for a seat on the UN Human Rights Council. May 18, 2017 In "News"