Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has on Saturday said that Igbo need two of their Governors and Senators that would voluntarily  dump their respective parties and defect to the ruling party, All Progressives Congress, APC, for the actualization of 2023 Igbo Presidency goal. The group revealed that one of the reasons Igbo have not become President for over twenty years in Nigeria, was because of the Political parties most of their politicians were into. They said in other to have an edge over other Southern Zones in the 2023 Presidency, Igbo need at least two South East Governors and some senators to decamp to APC. Disclosing this in a statement jointly signed by the President General, Mazi okechukwu Isiguzoro, and Secretary General, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, respectively, the group opined, “We have observed that Igbo going so far based on political antecedents and activities, are traditionally PDP and APGA for almost two decades of Democracy in Nigeria. “Igbo Youths observed that in other to have an edge over other Southern Zones over 2023 Presidency, we must have at least two South East Governors decamped to APC. “Talks had already begun with some critical stakeholders to actualize this political balance in the South East. “At least with three South East PDP Governors and two South East APC Governors before first quarter of 2021, Igbo stand a chance for presidency. “We are independently sure that with two APC Governors from the South East, it will strengthen our collective bargain for a Nigerian President of Igbo stock come 2023 in both PDP and APC. “We urge Igbo to use ” Anya Dee Nwamuo Lee ihe nno n’akpa” let’s despise the flaws of the past and flush it into the dustbin of history. “We surely get two Igbo Presidential materials to fly PDP and APC tickets, especially those with the same pedigrees of Great Zik of Africa. “We insists that Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide is not organizing any Award or Beauty pageant in Bayelsa, and we don’t support any candidate in Bayelsa Guber Candidate in the forthcoming elections. “Those using Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youths name are fraudulent elements and we disassociate ourselves, as Ohanaeze Ndigbo Bayelsa is not aware of the event. “We urge those slated for the award to be wary of fraudsters who Masquerade as Igbo to extort unsuspecting public. “We have dissolved the Bayelsa State Exco of Ohanaeze Youths whose tenure elapsed last February 2019, and the Bayelsa State Ohanaeze had constituted a new electoral body for the new elections. We therefore urge Igbo to vote their conscience in Bayelsa Governorship election. Vanguard Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide has warned a second Republic lawmaker, Dr. Junaid Mohammed to desist from further vituperation against Igbo, noting that he should be more concerned about the level of insecurity in the north-east. October 17, 2019 In "News" THE leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide Wednesday stated that any manoeuvring aimed at denying Ndigbo the Presidency come 2023 will spell doom for the nation. August 29, 2018 In "News" Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council Worldwide, has on Thursday advised the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in the February 23, 2019 presidential election, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to accept defeat, noting that President Muhammadu Buhari’s victory is the shortest route for an Igbo Presidency come 2023. September 12, 2019 In "News"