FORMER  Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, has expressed heartfelt commiserations to the victims of the fire disaster at Ochanja Market, Onitsha, Wednesday. In a statement, yesterday by his Media Aide, Uche Anichukwu, Ekweremadu, described the incident as a sad loss, not only to the Government and good people of Anambra State, but to the South East and the nation as a whole. Ekweremadu said: “I received the news of the fire disaster at Ochanja Market, Onitsha, with a deep of grief. This is a collective loss, not only to the affected traders, their families, the Government and good people of Anambra State but also to the South East and the nation as a whole. “My heart goes out to the victims; Anambra State Market Traders Association, ASMATA; Obi of Onitsha, HRM Igwe, Alfred Achebe; the Government and good people of Anambra State; Ndigbo and the nation. I sympathise in a very special way with those, who lost their loved ones or properties. The former Deputy President of the Senate who urged support and prayers for the casualties, however, prayed God to grant peaceful repose to the souls of the deceased. Vanguard ..as Obiano visits Upper Iweka By Chimaobi Nwaiwu Angry reaction has continued to follow Wednesday, October 15, 2019 fuel tanker accident that resulted in razing of over 40 houses 500 shops and untimely death of a fleeing woman and baby who slip and fell into the fire and both burning… October 17, 2019 In "News" DEPUTY Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, has described recent fire incident that claimed eight lives and destroyed valuable property in Nnewi, Anambra State, as a major setback to the economic development of the South East. December 30, 2015 In "News" Senator Joy Emodi, the All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA, senatorial candidate for Anambra North senatorial district, has called on men and women of goodwill to contribute to the revival of the businesses of victims of the recent Ochanja market fire disaster. January 17, 2011 In "News"