Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, has on Wednesday spoke against the constitutional four years term given to Presidents, noting that the term is short for a president to perform. “Four years is quite a short period for a country that is developing, for a person who wants to change the country to do much”, Jonathan said. Speaking at the constitutional term limits summit in Niamey, Niger Republic, on Wednesday, Jonathan equally frowned at those who stay up to fourteen years, questioning what the person would be doing in the office. His words according to TheCable; “When Professor Wade (Senegal) was in his last tenure he changed the constitution and extended the term limits from five to seven years. He thought he would win the election. But Macky Sall reduced it to five years. We must commend dynamic leaders like that. “There is no need for one person to sit for 14, years doing what? The country is not your personal estate. Countries are free to amend their laws. Just like the president of Niger Republic said, different nations have different ways of doing things, so it is better they have their own way of doing things. I agree to that. Under no circumstance will I seek a 3rd term — Buhari(Opens in a new browser tab) “Most countries in Africa emulate America – that is a stable country, and take “four, four years” like Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana. “Four years is quite a short period for a country that is developing for a person who wants to change the country to do much. In Nigeria we just finished the election and some people are already talking about 2023 election. It is distracting. “That is why some people come with the idea of a single tenure; so a president can sit down and plan all his programmes for the good of the country. We are too distracted with these elections. Why must we waste money every four years to elect a leader? Those are the things that agitate our minds.” Recall that Presidency yesterday debunked the rumour making rounds that President Muhammadu Buhari would return for a third term. A statement from the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, stated that , “President Buhari is a democrat. He respects the constitution. Any activity aimed at altering the two-term limit will not succeed and shall never have his time nor support.” Vanguard FORMER President, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, declined to respond to President Goodluck Jonathan’s reply to his December 2 letter, saying that he stands by the contents of his missive. Obasanjo who spoke to newsmen at his hilltop mansion in Abeokuta through his media aide, Tunde Oladunjoye, said he would not… December 24, 2013 In "Headlines" A statement credited to a second republic lawmaker, Junaid Mohammed, has claimed that President Muhammadu Buhari is behaving just like the Ex-President, Goodluck Jonathan by allegedly favouring only the South-West regions in terms of infrastructural development while neglecting his own people, the north. Mr. Mohammed was also quoted to have… May 27, 2017 In "News" IT has been a week-long of bashing and tongue-lashing of President Goodluck Jonathan’s proposed elongated single term for the President and governors of the 36 states of the country beginning from 2015. August 1, 2011 In "Headlines"