President Muhammadu Buhari has on behalf of the Federal Executive Council and all Nigerians, felicitated with former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, on his 85th birthday, on October 19, 2019, describing him as a living legend and symbol of national unity. President Buhari said as Nigeria’s youngest leader since Independence, General Gowon’s visionary leadership style, wisdom and disciplined outlook kept the country as one, extolling the former Head of State for faith and steadfastness in God in times of adversity, and courageously pursuing the interest of majority Nigerians for a unified and stronger country. ALSO READ: Fulani: Our grievances against Obasanjo, others; fears in Nigeria — Junaid In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President said he believes the elder statesman laid a solid foundation for the country to thrive, with the creation of federating units, and implementation of futuristic policies like the National Youths Service Corps, that has consistently served the purpose of fostering unity, harmony and expanding the horizons of young Nigerians for lifetime opportunities. He commended Gen. Gowon’s simplicity and humility, leaving the highest position in the country to return to school for further studies, and returning to provide wise counsels to leaders, encouraging good governance and setting up an organisation, Nigeria Prays, that consistently upholds the nation in prayers. President noted that the former Head of State has stayed relevant in Nigeria and beyond, and enjoys wide respect from far and near. He congratulated all family members, friends and close associates of the exemplary leader on the auspicious occasion of his 85th birthday, praying that the Almighty God will always remember his sacrifices for the nation, and grant him longer life, good health and strength to keep working for the good of country and humanity. Vanguard President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday called to commiserate with former Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon (rtd), over the passing away of his younger sister, Kande Martha Audu. March 6, 2017 In "News" FORMER Head of State and National President of Nigeria Prays Organisation, NPO,  Dr. Yakubu Gowon, has called for intense prayers against the menace of insecurity, killings, and corruption ravaging the country instead of resorting to violence and retaliation. November 26, 2018 In "News" A former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, said on Sunday that Nigeria’s problems would be resolved through unrelenting prayers by the church, rather than resorting to violence, retaliation and unforgiveness. November 25, 2018 In "News"