Chief David Lyon, the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Bayelsa State, has promised to correct all the mistakes of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government if elected as governor. Lyon, who pledged to be a servant leader, if elected, gave the promise on Tuesday during the launching of the APC governorship campaign organisation at the David Lyon Campaign Office in Yenagoa. He said that the PDP government in the state had impoverished the people in the past years, adding that people must all unite to send the party packing to come Nov. 16. According to Lyon: “We must work hard; we must be united; the victory of the party lies on those of us who are here today. “We must be courageous; I know we will face issues but we must stand firm to see that we defeat PDP come Nov. 16. “I came to serve Bayelsa and not for Bayelsa to serve me; I’m assuring Bayelsa people that their lives will change for better under my government. “Mistakes have been made by the PDP government but we are here to correct those mistakes. I will not disappoint you; I will always consult you before making decisions,” Lyon said. Earlier, the alternate Director-General of the organisation, Prof Seiyefa Brisibe, called for unity among all the party stakeholders and urged them to contribute their own quota for the success of the party at the polls. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Director-General of the organisation and Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipre Sylva was absent at the inauguration. NAN also reports that the running mate to Lyon, Sen Degi Eremienyon, former deputy governor of the state Hon. Peremobowei Ebebi, who recently dumped the PDP and a former Political Adviser and PDP Caucus Chairman, Chief Geroge Fente, among others, were present at the occasion. Vanguard Emem Idio - Yenagoa THE All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Bayelsa, Chief David Lyon, on Tuesday, assured the people of the state that an APC -led government under his watch would correct all mistakes and wrongs perpetrated by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) government in the state. Lyon,… October 15, 2019 In "News" The Bayelsa chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has disowned the former senator representing Bayelsa East Senatorial District, Sen. Nimi Amange, following his recent defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). September 21, 2019 In "News" By Omeiza Ajayi, Abuja Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress APC, Mr. Yekini Nabena has declared that the plans of the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and its outgoing governor in Bayelsa State, Seriake Dickson to rig the November 16 governorship election in the state would never come… October 2, 2019 In "News"