Alpha Specialties, a sub-sect of Alpha Pharmacy and leading provider of medical equipment in Nigeria has called for mass orientation of the general public on how to access or purchase quality medications in a bid to tackle the scourge of counterfeit drugs in the society. Speaking at the 2019 Medic West Africa that brought together over 200 exhibitors from more than 32 countries, Team Lead of Alpha Specialties, Pharmacist Chimezie Obiwulu said that lack of law enforcement among others contributed to the increase of counterfeit drugs that have sent many to early grave. “To curb this menace, we need to begin mass orientation of the general public on where to purchase quality medications, how to identify accredited pharmacies. Technology should also be leveraged to address this problem. The mobile authentication service used to verify the authenticity of some drugs should extend to all drugs. Furthermore, laws guiding drug distribution should be strictly enforced and adhered to by all parties involved. Three million unregistered pharmaceutical centres in Nigeria — PSN(Opens in a new browser tab) Chimezie further noted that Alpha Pharmacy has been in existence for over 33years, “we now run a three-prong business; retail pharmacy, pharmaceutical distribution and Alpha Specialties. In partnership with GE Healthcare and Tuttnauer, Alpha Specialties provide quality medical equipment to healthcare facilities across the country. “Our mission is to ensure good healthcare gets to the grassroots. We are changing the narrative by providing healthcare facilities with localized and standard technology at affordable rates. We have also realized equipment maintenance is a challenge for most facilities hence we provide end-users with maintenance and training. “Alpha Pharmacy is the foremost supplier of anaesthesia agents, fertility hormones and rare ethical products for each medical sub-specialty. Our goal is to impact the lives of every Nigerian by providing quality solutions across healthcare.” Vanguard All over the world, drug counterfeiting is a potentially deadly phenomenon. In Nigeria it undermines every aspect of medical treatment and health care delivery and is a major cause of suffering and death. The problem of fake, counterfeit, spurious, unwholesome and adulterated drugs has rocked the Nigerian health care system… October 11, 2016 In "Health" Still little or nothing is being done to implement the only strategy which could curb fake drugs March 3, 2019 In "Health" As West Africa declares war on the market for expired and counterfeit medicines, start-ups are putting quality control in the hands of patients to stop them risking their lives trying to get well. July 11, 2017 In "News"