Delta State Government has presented relief assistance to over 150 victims of natural disasters across four communities in the state. The communities that benefited from the presentation which was done through the State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, included Ogwashi-Uku in Aniocha South Local Government Area, Ibusa in Oshimili North, Ovwian/Aladja in Udu and Biose-Amantu in Asaba, Oshimili South Local Government Area. The State Commissioner Bureau for Special Duties, Hon Omamofe Pirah, while making the presentation, noted that the initiative was not meant to compensate them for their losses but to cushion the effects of the disaster. Pirah said: “This humanitarian gesture is in line with the commitment of Governor Okowa to the welfare of all Deltans. Therefore, on behalf of SEMA, I wish to express our profound appreciation to the Governor for providing the necessary tools to ensure a swift response to various disasters across the state despite limited resources”. On his part, the Director of SEMA, Mr. Karo Ovemeso, explained that the relief catered for victims of various natural disasters from 2018 till date, urging the beneficiaries to make judicious use of the packages they have received. Vanguard News By Festus Ahon Delta State Government, Tuesday gave cash assistance to about 300 victims of natural disasters from across four communities in the state. The benefitting communities include Ogwashi-Uku in Aniocha South Local Government Area, Ibusa in Oshimili North, Ovwian/Aladja in Udu and Biose-Amantu in Asaba, Oshimili South Local Government… October 22, 2019 In "News" DELTA State Government have provided relief assistance amounting to N2.1 million to eight victims of the May 30, 2017 Asaba and Ikpanam road flood and other disasters. June 12, 2017 In "News" OLEH—HUNDREDS of indigenes of Aradhe community, Isoko North Local Government Area of Delta State, have been rendered homeless following a ravaging flood that submerged the community. August 6, 2019 In "News"