The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused President Muhammadu Buhari of conjuring false statistics to cover what it called its incompetence and failures in governance. The party also said it was shocking for President Muhammadu Buhari to resort to self-applause and discrediting of development statistics from credible independent organizations simply because they exposed the rots and failures of his administration. In a statement issued by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said the nation was “again embarrassed when President Buhari directed his newly constituted Presidential Economic Advisory Council as well as the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs not to work with statistics from independent agencies,” but to rely only on self-sourced data. ALSO READ: Breaking: Jonathan keeps mum after meeting Buhari at Aso Rock The statement read: “Our party holds that such is a veiled approval for agencies to cook-up statistics, distort facts and fabricate false performance indices for the Buhari Presidency, a situation that will worsen our national challenges and return our nation to a pariah state. “The PDP challenges the Buhari Presidency to name particular statistics from any credible international organization that distorted facts on the reality of the failures of his administration. “The PDP laments that the fact that President Buhari announced this disturbing directive while inaugurating his Economic Advisory Council, casts a huge shadow on the credibility of the council and the reliability of the statistics it eventually comes up with. “Furthermore, the directive has equally eroded the credibility of any statistics that may be presented by the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs. “The PDP rejects as offensive, President Buhari’s assertions that there are impacts of good governance in the rural areas when in reality, our rural areas are plagued by excruciating poverty and despondency. Such assertion only confirms that President Buhari is insensitive to the plights of Nigerians. “Moreover, Nigerians are daily confronted with the the ugly reality of the failures of the Buhari administration and do not need any government statistics to show them that our economy is on its knees; that there is no food on their tables; that they cannot afford their basic needs; that our schools are dilapidated; that there are no drugs and equipment in the hospitals and that our roads have all collapsed. “Indeed, Nigerians do not need government statistics to know that the cost of food has continued to skyrocket; that there are no jobs for the teeming youth; that businesses and industries are collapsing; that crime, criminality and bloodletting have escalated; that compatriots are committing suicide while others are leaving our country in droves, and that the Buhari-led APC administration has remained incompetent, corrupt and insensitive to their plight.” The PDP further urged the Presidency to accept its failures and seek help “instead of compounding the problems it brought with fabricated statistics.” Vanguard By Dirisu Yakubu -  Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Presidency of allegedly conjuring false statistics to cover what it called its incompetence and failures in governance. The party also said it was shocking for President Muhammadu Buhari to resort to self-applause and discrediting of development statistics… October 10, 2019 In "News" ABUJA- Ahead of the 2019 general elections,  Presidential candidate of the  Peoples Democratic Party, PDP,  Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has dismissed President Muhammadu Buhari's promise to provide the opposition a level playing ground that he was "denied in the past," describing the statement as an indication that the President is a… December 18, 2018 In "News" Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, yesterday, said the alleged directive by President Muhammadu Buhari to Statistician General of Nigeria, Mr. Yemi Kale, to change the data on unemployment in the country is a horrible corruption. December 22, 2018 In "News"