Former Ajax and Machester United goalkeeper, Edwin van der Sar has admitted his interest in taking up the role of Machester United’s director of football. Luis Campos, a close pal of the side’s former manager, Jose Mourinho has hinted some days ago the club desperately needs a sporting director to balance the sporting side with the economic aspect. Getting someone to fill the role of the sporting director is expected to take some responsibility off the executive vice-chairman Ed Woodward and manager, Solksjaer. “Besides my family, the wife, kids and friends, I have two loves in my life – Ajax, who scouted me and gave me the chance to shine in the world of football and Manchester United, who helped me to develop even at the end of my career,” he told Planet Futbol TV. “‘Of course I’d be interested in a position, but at first I think I need to learn a little bit more here at Ajax and develop myself even further. “Let’s see what the future brings, United is a fantastic club, with a great following all over the world.” Van der Sar spent six years at Old Trafford, winning four Premier League titles while saving the decisive penalty in the 2008 Champions League final, and the 48-year-old believes he could be suited to the role his former club are looking for. The former United goalkeeper is presently a chief executive at Ajax where he has overseen a remarkable rise involving the Dutch side’s exceptional academy. Vanguard News Nigeria. No matter the outcome of the Europa League final tonight against Manchester United, 24 May will always have a special sentiment for Ajax and its fans. May 23, 2017 In "Sports" Though he denies it, Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has gambled the club's season on the outcome of Wednesday's Europa League final against Ajax in Stockholm. May 22, 2017 In "Sports" Colombian international defender Davinson Sanchez became Tottenham Hotspur's first signing of the close season on Friday when they paid a reported club record £42million (46m euros, $54m) to Dutch side Ajax. August 18, 2017 In "News"