Lebanese President Michel Aoun said on Thursday that he was ready for dialogue with protesters to find the best solution for saving the country from financial collapse and suggested a government reshuffle was on the table. Protests expressing outrage with a ruling elite they accuse of corruption and calling for the government’s resignation have swept Lebanon since last week, paralyzing the country despite announced reforms intended to pull it from a crisis. In a televised address to the nation, Aoun promised he would fight state corruption as demanded by hundreds of thousands of protesters. He said there was “a need to review the current government”. Aoun said he would back new laws aimed at fighting corruption, including proposals for laws that would lift bank secrecy and scrap immunity from presidents, ministers, and MPs, moves that could pave the way for investigations. READ ALSO: Lebanon’s Hariri agrees to reforms amid nationwide protests over economic crisis READ ALSO: PHOTOS: Buhari, Putin of Russia, others at Russia-Africa Economic Forum Positioning himself as in solidarity with protest grievances, he said corruption had “eaten us to the bone.” “Your shouts will not be wasted,” said Aoun. “My call to demonstrators: I am ready to meet your representatives that carry your concerns to listen to your specific demands. You will hear from us about our fears over financial collapse,” said Aoun. “We will discuss what we can do together to achieve your objectives without causing collapse and chaos and open a constructive dialogue that can lead to a constructive result and define options that will lead to the best results.” “Dialogue is always the best for salvation. I am waiting for you.” Source: Reuters Vanguard News  Lebanon’s Saad al-Hariri on Wednesday suspended his decision to resign as prime minister at the request of President Michel Aoun to allow for dialogue to ease a major political crisis. November 22, 2017 In "News" Security forces fired tear gas and chased down protesters in Beirut on Friday as tens of thousands of people across Lebanon marched to demand the removal of a political elite they accuse of looting the economy to the point of collapse. Riot police in vehicles and on foot rounded up… October 18, 2019 In "Foreign" Saad Al-Hariri attended independence day celebrations in Beirut on Wednesday after returning to Lebanon for the first time since resigning as prime minister in a broadcast from Saudi Arabia. November 22, 2017 In "News"