China on Wednesday expressed “strong indignation and firm opposition” to the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of a bill in support of Hong Kong protesters. The Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act requires sanctions against Chinese officials “responsible for undermining fundamental freedoms” in the city. It also provides an annual review of whether Hong Kong is sufficiently autonomous from Beijing to maintain a special trading status with the U.S. The Hong Kong government also expressed “regret” over the bill passing in the U.S. House. Trump orders withdrawal of troops from northern Syria, Esper says(Opens in a new browser tab) “Foreign legislatures should not interfere in any form in the internal affairs” of Hong Kong, the statement said. Hong Kong is a semi-autonomous Chinese territory, which has for months been rocked by massive pro-democracy protests. Tens of thousands marched in the city on Monday in support of the bill, which still needs to pass through the U.S. Senate. The bill has put further strain on China-U.S. relations, as the two countries are negotiating an end to their year-long trade war. (NAN) Vanguard The meeting between the organised labour and representatives of the Federal Government has been moved till Wednesday, Oct. 16, to allow for sorting out of all grey areas of contention. October 16, 2019 In "News" UNITED Labour Congress of Nigeria, ULC, yesterday, berated Minister of Labour and Employment and Chairman of Tripartite Committee on the new National Minimum Wage, Senator Chris Ngige, over comments credited to him that workers should not expect a new national minimum wage by September. June 1, 2018 In "News" THOUGH a tripartite National Minimum Wage Committee was inaugurated by the President Muhammadu Buhari on November 27, 2017, it is becoming obvious that Organised Labour and indeed, workers, are now restive over the protracted issue which has been a focal point of Labour agitation since 2015 when the current N18,000… January 4, 2018 In "Business"