Host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu left fans stunned with the nine kg embellished tuxedo he wore for the BBnaija season four finale. The e perennial host, who is known for his classic dress sense, has been the fashion highlight of the season since it began on June 30.
Ebuka showed up to the premiere in a gold embellished, fitted tuxedo which he revealed weighed nine kg via his twitter handle @ebuka. He wrote, “Fun fact: This dazzling tuxedo actually weighs over 9 kilograms. “Tune in now let’s enjoy the #BBNaija finale together!!! Meanwhile, beard gone. Goatee is here!!!” BBNaija: We genuinely love each other – Teddy A, BamBam(Opens in a new browser tab) The Mai Atafo-designed tuxedo was paired with gold embellished shoes from 313 Eko , giving the host an edgy, classy look. Fans have since taken to social media to hail the look, which they described as flashy enough for an anticipated finale. @B_Sugar said, “It actually looks like it weighs a TON! Love it.” @Aretackc wrote, “This guy has been the one doing the peppering since day 1 with his clothings, I only came to see what you wore, the housemates don’t bring the chilli.” @Vivian wrote, “Ebuka kill us… If you don’t give us… How do we take???” @Snazzy tweeted, “Ebuka your outfit , your blazers just got my neighbor’s son blind. Dope.” Meanwhile, tensions are high as Mercy, Mike, Omashola, Seyi and Frodd are in the running for the Grand Prize of 60 million Naira. A fashion designer, Micheal Black hit it big after media personality and BBNaija host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu wore his design, and t went viral. November 7, 2018 In "News" During last Sunday’s eviction show, BBNaija host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, revealed that there would be no evictions the following week. The housemates, unaware of this latest twist, made their way to the diary room on Monday night to nominate two of their fellow housemates for possible eviction as usual. September 20, 2019 In "Entertainment" Popular media personality, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu will remain the host of the Big Brother Naija reality show for the third edition after a successful outing last season. December 19, 2017 In "Entertainment"