Mr Boss Mustapha, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) has warned those using his office for fraudulent acts to desist or face the consequences. Mustapha gave the warning in a statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja by Mr Willie Bassay, the Director of Information, office of the SGF. Lagos to host first edition of ‘Ofada rice day’ festival(Opens in a new browser tab) Mustapha said his attention had been has been drawn to unrelenting activities of faceless persons to such fraudulent activities. According to SGF, these faceless persons are using the social media and other platforms to lure unsuspecting members of the public to submit their Curriculum Vitae, at a fee, to his office for Federal Government appointments. He said his office was also aware of inaccurate information peddled around, regarding constituency projects being executed under its supervision. “For the avoidance of doubt, the office of the SGF neither executes nor supervises constituency projects. “Also, the SGF is aware of numerous forged introductory letters purportedly issued from his office seeking diverse favours from individuals and corporate entities for personal gains. “The general public is by this notice advised to beware of the clandestine activities of these dubious and fraudulent persons and their cohorts going about to fleece unsuspecting members of the public,“ he said. Diaspora’s $25bn remittance in 2018 equals 83% of national budget — FG(Opens in a new browser tab) According to SGF, government has evolved measures to track these unpatriotic and faceless persons and will bring to justice anyone found engaging in these unwholesome activities. He said for enquiry and clarification, the official communication channels of his  remain: www.osgf.gov.ng and info@osgf.gov.ng.  (NAN) Vanguard ABUJA: Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha has warned fraudsters against using his office to defraud Nigerians, especially politicians seeking to be appointed Cabinet Ministers in the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. June 14, 2019 In "News" The federal government has announced several cost-cutting measures as a way of reducing the cost of governance and shoring up its dwindling revenue. October 16, 2019 In "Finance" The federal government has explained its decision to launch a new website for the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation OSGF, saying, "the functions and responsibilities of the Office makes it highly imperative for it to have a functional website that would deliver information about the… May 21, 2018 In "News"