The Impeached Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Elder Simon Achuba has said that his purported impeachment last Friday by the state house of assembly was unconstitutional and illegal, that will not stand the test of the judiciary. Achuba in a press conference on Sunday held at his private residence in Lokoja said that swearing-in anyone else as the governor is planning will amount to a continuation of illegality. He called on President Muhammad Buhari to beam searchlight on the level yif lawlessness going on in Kogi state to prevent an emergence of another Boko haram insurgency. Achuba said he had already instructed his lawyer to commence judicial process to reclaim his mandate and put an end to executive lawlessness happening in the state. He also lamented that he was treated like a common criminal by the police on the instruction of the governor hours after the assembly pronounced their decision. ⤖Kogi PDP primaries: Alleged shooting sad, unfortunate – Gov Bello ⤖Kogi: How Bello, Deputy Faceoff is affecting APC He said “I was treated like a common criminal when police were drafted to prevent entry and exist from my official residence, while electricity to my house was disconnected. I went to put on the generator set, only for it to be disabled by the government.” Achuba said he had to call someone to pick him from the official residence as the police prevented him from leaving with any vehicle. Vanguard News Nigeria. Kogi State House of Assembly has impeached the deputy governor of the state, Simon Achuba. House majority leader informed journalists of the impeachment on Friday. Achuba had accused the governor of the state, Yahaya Bello, of being after his life. He alleged that Bello had sent gunmen to kill him,… October 18, 2019 In "News" Kogi State House of Assembly, yesterday, initiated moves to impeach the state's Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba. August 8, 2019 In "News" The All Progressive Congress (APC) Kogi state chapter on Thursday suspended the embattled Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba from the party for "anti-party activities." August 8, 2019 In "News"