U.S. President Donald Trump warned Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan in a letter about Turkey’s incursion into Syria, “Don’t be a tough guy” and “Don’t be a fool!” The Oct. 9 letter was released by the White House on Wednesday as Trump battled to control the political damage following his decision to pull U.S. troops out of northern Syria, clearing the way for the Turkish incursion against America’s Kurdish allies. The letter tried to persuade Erdogan to reverse a decision to invade Syria that Erdogan told Trump about in an Oct 6 phone call. “Let’s work out a good deal!” Trump said. “You don’t want to be responsible for slaughtering thousands of people, and I don’t want to be responsible for destroying the Turkish economy – and I will.” Trump had the letter released to bolster his view that he did not give Turkey a green light to invade Syria. Many lawmakers have been sharply critical of his decision to remove American forces from the conflict zone. “I have worked hard to solve some of your problems. Don’t let the world down. You can make a great deal,” said Trump in the letter. The president wrote that the commander of the Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces, General Mazloum Kobani Abdi, was willing to negotiate and to make some concessions. He said he had confidentially enclosed to Erdogan a copy of a letter Mazloum had sent him. “History will look upon you favorably if you get this done the right and humane way. It will look upon you forever as the devil if good things don’t happen. Don’t be a tough guy. Don’t be a fool!” said Trump. He added: “I will call you later.” Source: Reuters Vanguard News President Donald Trump on Monday launched a harsh attack on NATO ally Turkey, threatening to destroy its economy if Ankara takes a planned military strike in Syria too far, even though the U.S. leader himself has opened the door for a Turkish incursion. Trump said he would “totally destroy and… October 8, 2019 In "Foreign" U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday rejected criticism from fellow Republicans over his decision to pull U.S. troops out of northern Syria and dismissed worries that captured Islamic State fighters might escape in the chaos of a Turkish attack. Trump’s abrupt move on Sunday to remove 50 U.S. troops out… October 10, 2019 In "Foreign" President Recep Tayyip Erdogan says Turkey’s military operation in Syria will end only if Syrian Kurdish fighters lay down their weapons and leave the border area. October 16, 2019 In "Foreign"