China plans to replace Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam with an “interim” chief executive, the Financial Times reported, citing people briefed on the deliberations, which would bring to a close Lam’s rule after months of often-violent pro-democracy protests. Lam has become a lightning rod for protests over fears that Beijing is tightening its grip, limiting the freedoms enjoyed under the “one country, two systems” principle enshrined when colonial ruler Britain handed Hong Kong back to China in 1997. Sources told the FT that officials in China want a stabilized situation before a final decision can be made on leadership changes, as they do not want to be seen to be giving in to violence. If Chinese President Xi Jinping decides to go ahead, Lam’s successor would be appointed by March and cover the remainder of her term, which ends in 2022, the newspaper here said. Lam’s top successors include the former head of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority Norman Chan, and Henry Tang, who has also served as the territory’s financial secretary and chief secretary for administration, the report said. In September, in response to a Reuters report about a recording of Lam saying she would step down if she could, she said she had never asked the Chinese government to let her resign to end the Chinese-ruled city’s political crisis Hundreds of thousands of people have taken to the streets in Hong Kong since mid-June in violent protests against now-suspended draft legislation that could have seen people sent to mainland China for trial in Communist Party-controlled courts. Although the bill was finally withdrawn, the protests have continued, defying police rulings banning them. China has denied the accusation it is eroding the freedoms granted in 1997, and has blamed foreign nations such as the United States and Britain for inciting unrest. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said Tuesday she is open to dialogue with protesters, but that the government will not tolerate violence. August 27, 2019 In "News" Hong Kong leader, Carrie Lam, on Friday, banned the wearing of face masks at “unlawful and unauthorized” protests in order to help quell the violent demonstrations that have rocked the city for nearly four months. “Although we are evoking the emergency regulation, Hong Kong is not in a state of… October 4, 2019 In "Foreign" Hong Kong protesters threw gasoline bombs and police fired tear gas Saturday in renewed clashes over anti-government grievances. Reporters saw at least one person arrested after violence erupted following an afternoon march by several thousand people in Tuen Mun, a district in the northwest of the Chinese territory. Hong Kong… September 22, 2019 In "Foreign"