The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) said on Saturday that its sustained onslaught against remnants of Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) Terrorists (BHTs) in the Northeast of the Country has again yielded significant results with the destruction of another ISWAP hideout and neutralization of several of their fighters at Kirta Wulgo on the fringes of Lake Chad in Borno State. It said the airstrike was conducted by the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole on Friday, 4 October 2019, after persistent Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) missions revealed that the settlement was being used as a staging area from where the terrorists launch attacks against own troops’ positions. Consequently, the ATF dispatched its aircraft to attack identified compounds within the settlement. A statement by Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, Director NAF Public Relations and Information said, “Overhead the target area, scores of ISWAP fighters were observed attempting to flee upon sighting the attack platforms. “The aircraft took turns in engaging the location, scoring accurate hits which led to the destruction of some structures as well as the killing of several terrorists. “The NAF, operating in concert with surface forces, will sustain its efforts to completely destroy all remnants of the terrorists in the Northeast. You are requested to please disseminate this information and show the attached declassified short video clip of the attack through your medium for the awareness of the general public. Vanguard THE Nigerian Air Force, NAF, said yesterday that its latest strike against terrorists in Abaganaram area of northern Borno State  “substantially degraded their hideout.” June 2, 2019 In "News" Kingsley Omonobi - Abuja The Nigerian Airforce (NAF) said on Thursday that its Air Task Force (ATF)  unit of Operation Lafiya Dole has recorded another major success in the sustained air offensive against terrorists’ targets in the North East.  The air raid was carried out on Wednesday when NAF aircraft,… September 26, 2019 In "News" In continuation of its sustained air offensive against terrorist elements in the Northeast of the country, the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), through the Air Task Force (ATF) of Operation Lafiya Dole, has neutralized scores of terrorists and destroyed their hideouts in separate air strikes conducted at Durbada (also known as… September 21, 2019 In "News"