The opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has faulted the live broadcast made by President Muhammadu Buhari to mark the celebration of the country’s 59 years anniversary. Breaking: Delta tribunal sacks Manager, order fresh election in Delta South(Opens in a new browser tab) The party which has ruled Nigeria for sixteen (16), described President Buhari’s Independence Day broadcast as an insult on the psyche of Nigerians and a mockery of the country’s democracy. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary of the party, PDP said that the speech was completely unpresidential, lacking in patriotic stance and replete with manifest inconsistencies, contradictions, paradoxes and false performance claims, which further confirm that our dear fatherland is in wrong hands. Read the statement below: “The PDP notes that President Buhari, in his recorded address, failed to forcefully address the key issues of freedom, social justice, constitutional order, separation of powers, rule of law, human rights, credible elections, national cohesion, accountability and transparency in government; the very fundamentals of an independent state, because his administration had violated them all. The party regretted that President Buhari had no forceful reassurances on the challenge of escalated insecurity under his watch; he had no clear-cut and operable blueprint to revamp our economy, which his administration wrecked in a period of four years, resulting in so much hardship and despondency that Nigerians now resort to suicide and slavery abroad as options. Our party notes that this address further exposes that the Buhari Presidency is not interested in nation building; that it is completely disconnected from the people and remains insensitive to the plights of Nigerians. The PDP states that if anything, Mr. President only succeeded in further demonstrating that his administration is, indeed, in no position to deliver a credible, acceptable and satisfactory independence address. Buhari is the best President, his administration is best since 1960 – MURIC(Opens in a new browser tab) This is so because under the Buhari Presidency, our nation has experienced the worst form of division, deprivation, human right abuse, constitutional violations, disregard to rule of law, electoral malpractices, disobedience to court order, disrespect for separation of powers and curtailing of press freedom. The PDP further laments that due to the incompetence and legitimacy challenges confronting the Buhari Presidency, our nation is losing her voice and due regard in the international arena; as the administration has remained lacking in the required capacity and boldness to forcefully engage other world leaders on critical issues. The dearth in foreign direct investment and the inhuman treatments being meted out on our citizens in countries where we were once held in very high esteem, are some of the injuries our nation is suffering under the Buhari administration. The party describes as depressing that while other leaders motivate their citizens on a day like this, President Buhari is presenting uninspiring claims, propaganda and empty promises. The PDP however urges Nigerians not to despair but keep hope alive as we collectively await the Supreme Court to deliver justice and retrieve our stolen Presidential mandate, so that the nation will have a leadership that it truly deserves at this point in our national history.” Vanguard The Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has described President Muhammadu Buhari’s Thursday night broadcast as a farewell speech. February 14, 2019 In "News" ABUJA—The Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, has faulted President Muhammadu Buhari’s 57th Independence anniversary broadcast, describing same as an empty tirade intended to deceive Nigerians. October 4, 2017 In "News" Constitutional Lawyer and Human Rights Activist, Chief Mike Ozekhome has described the 57th independence day anniversary speech given by President Muhammadu Buhari on Sunday, October 1, as not only un-presidential but un-reconciliatory. October 1, 2017 In "News"