The Edo State Government in partnership German tech giant, SAP and Coder In Africa (Coderina), has commenced training of over 1,700 public school teachers on coding and web programming. The training is part of workshops across Africa to mark the Africa Code Week. It is also in line with Edo state government’s efforts to leverage Information Communication Technology (ICT), to boost digital literacy skills for secondary school teachers and students across the state. Executive Director, Edo State Information and Communication Technology (ICTA), Yuwa Naps, said the trainers’ course is organised by the state’s Post Primary Education Board. Naps added that the over 1700 teachers being trained will transfer the knowledge and skill to about 250,000 students across the state. Head of Training Unit, Edo Information Communication Technology Agency (ICTA), Mrs Amen Ajayi, said “the session is aimed at training teachers on Programming Language (Scratch). They will cascade the skills acquired to students across different schools in state.” The training programme will hold simultaneously at the Edo ICTA Training Center in Benin City and the Edo State Polytechnic, Usen Computer Based Test Center, in Usen, Ovia South-West Local Government Area. Executive Director, Code In Africa, Mr Akinniyi Obaide, said the training will adequately equip students through their teachers with problem-solving skills, adding “the training will enable the children to acquire basic coding skills, which they can leverage to build careers in technology in the near future.” Vanguard News Nigeria. As part of ongoing efforts to improve quality education by leveraging Information Communication Technology (ICT), the Edo State Government has partnered with SAP, an international software company, on a 2-day digital literacy workshop for 500 secondary school teachers across the state. August 27, 2018 In "Education" CRISIS is brewing between members of the Nigeria Union of Teachers, NUT and the Association of Local Government of Nigeria, ALGON, in Edo State over alleged removal of the Leave Transport Grants, LTG and annual increment in salaries of primary school teachers. February 15, 2016 In "News" Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has charged teachers in secondary schools in the state to embrace his administration’s reforms in the education sector designed to leapfrog them into the Information and Communication Technology ecosystem. January 22, 2019 In "Education"