Six elephants have fallen to their deaths in Thailand while trying to save each other from a notorious waterfall. Officials said the incident occurred after a baby elephant slipped over the waterfall in central Thailand’s Khao Yai National Park. Two other elephants were also found struggling on a cliff edge nearby, and have been moved by Thai authorities. The waterfall, known as Haew Narok (Hell’s Fall), has a history of similar incidents. A herd of eight elephants died after falling in 1992, in a case that brought national attention. Thailand’s Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation (DNP) said officials were called to the scene on Saturday at 03:00 local time (20:00 GMT on Friday) when a group of elephants was blocking a road by the waterfall. Three hours later, the body of a three-year-old elephant was spotted near the base of Haew Narok, and five others were discovered nearby. Khanchit Srinoppawan, chief of the national park, told the BBC that the two remaining elephants were being monitored. Kenyan who swallowed 68 cocaine packets arrested in Thailand 25 cases of flesh eating bacteria reported in Northern Thailand hospital Edwin Wiek, the founder of Wildlife Friends Foundation Thailand, said the pair may have difficulty surviving as elephants rely on their large herds for protection and finding food. The incident could also take an emotional toll. Elephants have been known to display signs of grief. “It’s like losing half your family,” Mr Wiek told the BBC. “There’s nothing you can do, it’s nature, unfortunately,” he said. Around 7,000 Asian elephants remain in Thailand, with more than half living in captivity. Vanguard News Nigeria. A British tourist has been trampled to death by an elephant on the Thai tourist island of Koh Samui, police said Tuesday, the latest deadly attack by animals used to entertain holidaymakers. February 2, 2016 In "News" RESIDENTS and farmers in six communities in Idanre Local Government Area of Ondo State are living in palpable fear over the killing of one of the eight elephants said to have been terrorising farmers in the last few months. March 16, 2018 In "Metro" Ninety elephant carcasses have been discovered in Botswana with their tusks hacked off, a charity said Tuesday, in what is believed to be one of Africa's worst mass poaching sprees. September 4, 2018 In "News"