Gov. Aminu Masari of katsina state has warned officials of the state transport authority not to divert revenue generated from the buses under them. Masari gave the warning at the launching of a new bus purchased by the state transport authority (KSTA), on Saturday in Katsina. The governor was represented by the general manager of the transport authority, Alhaji Haruna Musa. Katsina: 20 kidnap victims sold into slavery in Burkina Faso(Opens in a new browser tab) Masari said that the purchase of the bus was part of the directives given to the authority, to purchase one bus every month from the proceeds generated by the company buses. He assured the Authority of the state government’s continued support, to enable it provide quality services to commuters in the state. The governor expressed satisfaction with the newly purchased bus and hope the authority would embrace maintenance culture in running its fleet. Build police observatory posts on highways to halt attacks – Prince Mamah tasks govt(Opens in a new browser tab) Earlier, the general manager of the authority, Musa, told the governor that the bus was purchased at the cost of N15 million. Musa said this was in line with government directive that the authority should pay its staff salaries, maintain the fleet of buses and use surplus to procure new buses monthly. He, however, expressed gratitude for the opportunity to contribute towards the improvement of the people using the buses for their transportation.(NAN) Vanguard ...Police launch manhunt on the trafficker By Bashir Bello, Katsina Indigenes of Katsina State and victims of human trafficking sold out into slavery in Burkina Faso were reportedly said to have been rescued and are expected back home in Katsina State today, Tuesday. The Katsina State government through the Director-General… September 30, 2019 In "News" Gov. Aminu Masari of Katsina State has warned all officials of the state’s Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board not to cheat intending pilgrims entrusted in their care during the 2017 Hajj . July 31, 2017 In "News" A Katsina state-based NGO, Daura Emirate Youth Progressive Movement (DEYPM), says it earmarked N 70 million to prosecute the electioneering campaign of President Muhammadu Buhari and Gov. Aminu Masari toward the 2019 general elections. September 8, 2018 In "News"