The President of the Institute of Productivity and Business Innovation Management, IPBIM, Mr Remi Dairo, has said applying the necessary innovation into how we do certain things in the country can help solve the national economic challenges being faced now. He stated this in Lagos during a seminar held for some members and prospective members of the institute. Dairo, who explained that some innovation methods may not necessarily involve application of technology, charged Nigerians to be innovative in whatever they do, as doing things the same way that have been done for donkey years would not yield any good results. COOP advises Wike against actions capable of undermining peace in parts of Rivers(Opens in a new browser tab) Dairo added that the aim of the institute was to make people challenge tradition and drive them to do things differently and be able to compete globally. “The institute came into being when we noticed that some people feel they would be seen as productive only when they work and begin to sweat profusely, but in the end, nothing has changed. For instance, being innovative in the packaging of a product could turn it to a market leader. We have to devise ingenious ways of doing things that would make our products acceptable globally. “Our certification does not involve you coming to sit for an exam, you just have to show how innovative you are by your skills and we are affiliated to similar institutes and universities in Europe and America,” he said. One of the guest speakers, Mr Olayinka Oni, opined that flexible working hours would soon take over the work place going by the current trend. Oni explained that most business chiefs and top corporate players agree that innovation was crucial to them and that innovation was not static. He said innovation was what made a company like Amazon become a world leader. Another speaker, Rufai Oseni, charged the leadership of the country to adopt the Singapore model where ministers are given targets to meet and given incentives when they meet them The President of the World Innovators Forum, Mr Axel Schultze, commended the leadership of the IPBIM and expressed his support for the institute.  Kemi Remi-Dairo Hearing Foundation, a non-profit organisation with the major aim of providing possible medical treatment platforms, access to financial/technical support and education to the public on the gift of hearing, as well as speech to people with hearing loss and awareness on noise pollution, has been nominated by LASEPA… May 17, 2019 In "News" Hope, was rekindled for patience with hearing loss otherwise known as hearing impairment, following the launch of Kemi Remi-Dairo Hearing Foundation , weekend ,  with the purpose of  providing   free  medical treatment to affected Nigerians. December 21, 2018 In "News" Kemi Remi Dairo, Managing Director/CEO, Events Expert is a graduate of Economics, Social Sciences from Obafemi Awolowo University. Her passion and love for quality services gave birth to Events Expert/KRD Chef Services. The young Nigerian through her entrepreneur hunger and business outfit has created jobs for a lot of youths. March 3, 2018 In "Business"