Archaeologists in Egypt have discovered a long-lost 2,200-year-old temple thought to belong to Pharaoh Ptolemy IV. The ancient tomb structure according to CNN report was accidentally found by construction workers during drilling on a sewage drain in the village of Kom Shakau in the Tama township in northern Sohag, according to a Facebook post made on September 29 by Egypt’s Ministry of Antiquities. Drilling work was suspended following the discovery. Archaeologists quickly found stone inscriptions with fragments of text featuring the name of Ptolemy IV, the fourth pharaoh of Egypt’s Ptolemaic dynasty. The team has so far uncovered a north-south wall, an east-west wall and the southwestern corner of the limestone structure, which is engraved with carvings of Hapi, the Egyptian god of the annual flooding of the Nile, carrying offerings while surrounded by birds and flowers, CNN reported. Experts are working to save what remains of the temple, which sits on the Nile’s western bank. ⤕US museum returns Egyptian gold coffin looted by art thieves ⤕China bans burial, seizes coffins Ptolemy IV is believed to have ruled Egypt from around 221 BC to 204 BC. His rule was not a successful one and he was more interested in frolicking and pursuing artistic endeavours than kingship. Ancient texts indicate that the Pharaoh is said to have built the largest human-powered ship ever made. Called the tessarakonteres (“Forty”), the galley had 40 banks of oars, operated by 4,000 oarsmen. The ancient temple’s discovery is the latest in a series of archaeological discoveries in 2019. Egypt is hoping to increase interest in tourism following the country’s uprising in 2011. Vanguard News Nigeria. Egyptian archaeologists have discovered the tomb of a priest dating back more than 4,400 years in the pyramid complex of Saqqara south of the capital Cairo, authorities said Saturday. December 15, 2018 In "News" A gilded coffin looted by art thieves in the wake of the Arab Spring and unwittingly purchased by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York has been returned to the Egyptian authorities. The sarcophagus dates back to the first century BC and once held the mummy of Nedjemankh, a… September 26, 2019 In "Foreign" The tombs of Queen Nefertari and King Seti I in the ancient Upper Egyptian city of Luxor, dating back to the New Kingdom era, will reopen to tourists after being closed for several years, Egyptian antiquities officials said last week. November 15, 2016 In "News"