The Senate on Thursday charged security agencies to step up their surveillance on the Bonny-Port-Harcourt waterways. The upper chamber gave the charge following a motion on piracy attacks on Bonny – Port-Harcourt waterways. The motion was sponsored by Senator Betty Apiafi (PDP, Rivers West). The Senate accordingly, also mandated the committee on works to ensure adequate funding in the 2020 budget for the completion of the Bonny – Port Harcourt waterways. Senator Apiafi, in her motion, recalled how four boats were attacked on 26th September, 2019 by pirates, dispossessed the passengers of their properties and even kidnapped some of them. “This unprecedented challenge on the Bonny-Port-Harcourt waterways have put many travellers at risk, and almost on a daily basis armed bandits kidnap commuters,” Senator Apiafi said. According to her, the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLG) will soon commence its project along that route, adding that “this will increase traffic along the waterways and put more lives at risk”. Senator Thompson George Sekibo (PDP, Rivers East) who seconded the motion, said the activities of sea pirates had led to the abduction, killing and rape of Nigerians using the waterways. Meanwhile, five bills scaled first reading on the floor during plenary on Thursday. The bills are Federal Polytechnic Kano Bill,  sponsored by Senator Jibrin Barau (APC, Kano North); Deep offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contract 2004 Act, sponsored by Senators Albert Akpan (PDP, Akwa-Ibom North East) and Ifeanyi Ubah (YPP, Anambra South). Others are: City University of Technology Auchi (Est.) Bill, 2019, sponsored by Senator Francis Alimikhena (APC, Edo North); Flag and Coat of Arms Act 2019 bill, by Senator Olalekan Mustapha; and Federal University, Wukari Bill, 2019, sponsored by Senator Emmanuel Bwacha. The bills were referred to the relevant committees by the President of the Senate, Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan, for further legislative work. Vanguard Nigeria News BONNY Kingdom, Rivers state has declared it would evict their Andoni neighbors from further occupation of Finima Finishing Ports "if the Bonny people continue to experience criminal attacks and provocations from the Andoni occupied spots" April 25, 2018 In "News" BONNY—THE Amanyanabo of Bonny in Bonny Local Government Area, Rivers State, HRM Edward Asimini Willaim Dappa-Pepple III (Perekule XI) of Bonny, has bemoaned the travails of his people in the hands of pirates, militants and oil thieves on the waterways. October 22, 2015 In "News" THE Nigerian Navy weekend paraded nine oil bunkering suspects at Bonny, Rivers State. March 10, 2013 In "News"