Member representing Umunneochi State Constituency at the Abia State House of Assembly, Barr Phillip Okey Igwe, has set up what he termed Constituency Farming in his constituency as an alternative to the nation’s over-reliance on oil and as a way of providing jobs for the teeming youths of his area. The lawmaker made this known while addressing his colleagues at the 7th Abia State House of Assembly during Plenary on Tuesday. He lamented a situation where many members of his constituency graduate from higher institutions across the federation every year without the prospect of getting jobs. To help in resolving the issue, he decided to set up the constituency farming to gainfully engage some of them. Buhari meets Niger Delta govs, orders forensic audit of NDDC(Opens in a new browser tab) “Most of our youths are unemployed. One of the challenges we are facing is that we have young men and women who have graduated from higher institutions and they inundate me with their CVs for the possibility of securing jobs for them. Part of the tragedy of our nationhood is that we abandoned farming and agriculture as soon as we discovered oil. From my own estimation, oil has done us more harm than good. So I told my constituents that I want to make farming fashionable again. It is not a popular idea, I must say, but I think it is the way to go. “I have appointed some of my constituents to assist me in this constituency farming. We want to set up farms to engage our people, and it is based on this that I call on Mr Speaker and Honourable Colleagues to support us by giving us fertilizer, modern farming equipment and such other items we will need to make this agricultural project a success”, he said. Responding, the Speaker, Rt Hon Chinedum Enyinnaya Orji, thanked the lawmaker for his innovation and expressed confidence in his ability to lead his constituents well following his establishment of the constituency farming. He promised to invest in the project and also urged other lawmakers to do the same. “Having come from an agrarian area, your project is an important one, so we will not hesitate to support you as investors with confidence in your managerial prowess that will yield the expected returns”. Anambra 2022: Stakeholders target south for Obiano’s successor(Opens in a new browser tab) Barr Okey Igwe also announced the untimely demise of Hon Valentine Nwankwo, aka Nwa Fada, a staunch member of the PDP in Umunneochi, who died at the age of 48. He described the deceased as “a good party man who loved to serve his people with so much dedication”. It was good news for students and graduates of Abia State Polytechnic, Aba, as the institution is set to hold its first convocation in 10 years come October 2019. The Rector of the school, Prof. Ezionye F. Eboh, stated this while fielding questions from the Hon Barr Jerry Uzosike-led Committee set… July 29, 2019 In "News" Following the skirmishes between the people of Umunneochi and their immediate neighbors from Ebonyi State on the one hand, and the people of Isu clan in Arochukwu Local Government Area and their immediate neighbors from Cross River State, on the other hand, leading to loss of lives, the Abia State… July 15, 2019 In "News" Abia State House of Assembly has resolved to investigate the reasons behind the plethora of incomplete and abandoned estates that dot the State with a view to sanctioning erring developers who prey on the government's desire to provide housing for its citizens, and get government to give them large expanse… July 4, 2019 In "News"