An Indian party leader, Kamlesh Tiwari has been reported to have been shot once and stabbed 15 times at his home in Naka Hindola area in Lucknow, India. Tiwari’s murder was alleged to be a result of certain provocative statements he had made in the past. The Hindu Samaj Party leader was murdered on October 18 by assailants who came to meet him under the disguise of working for his team. An autopsy report showed he was stabbed 15 times and shot once to ensure his death. In a paraphrased report by the India times, all the stabbings were targeted at the upper part of his body ― from the jaws to chest. The wounds were inflicted at a near-perfect 10 cm from one another. With two deep cut marks on the neck indicating an attempt to slit his throat. In an interview with India Today TV, India’s Director General of Police (DGP) said its team carried out the “best investigation” using technological and digital aids. “We structured the entire process of investigation. We did not spend time forming small teams of SIT. We formed 10 teams which were fanned in different locations and collected details of each movement of the accused, “We structured the entire process of investigation. We did not spend time forming small teams… We formed 10 teams which were fanned in different locations and collected details of each movement of the accused,” he said. So far, the India police has arrested suspects connected to the crime. Two of them which previously absconded were reported to have been tracked after the India police was keeping surveillance on them till the time they tried to contact their family members and friends. The two suspects, according to the police ran out of cash and were trying to contact their family for help. Vanguard News Nigeria. A Muslim man accused of killing a cow was beaten to death by a mob in central India, police said Sunday, the latest vigilante murder over the animal considered sacred by Hindus. May 20, 2018 In "News" A Muslim man accused of killing a cow was beaten to death by a mob in central India, police said Sunday, the latest vigilante murder over the animal considered sacred by Hindus. May 20, 2018 In "News" Thieves stole some of Mahatma Gandhi's remains on what would have been his 150th birthday, police say. The ashes were taken from a memorial in central India, where they had been kept since 1948 - the year of Gandhi's assassination by a Hindu extremist. The thieves also scrawled "traitor" in… October 3, 2019 In "Foreign"