16-year-old climate activist, Greta Thunberg turned down an environmental award and £40,000 (N18.6 million) in prize money by the Nordic Council. The Swedish campaigner revealed this in an Instagram post while appreciating the acknowledgement of the Council. Revealing why she turned down the award, the teenager said: “What we need is for our politicians and the people in power to start to listen to the current, best available science. “I want to thank the Nordic Council for this award. It is a huge honour. “But the climate movement does not need any more awards. What we need is for our politicians and the people in power start to listen to the current, best available science. “The Nordic countries have a great reputation around the world when it comes to climate and environmental issues. There is no lack of bragging about this. “There is no lack of beautiful words. But when it comes to our actual emissions and our ecological footprints per capita – if we include our consumption, our imports as well as aviation and shipping – then it’s a whole other story.” The 16-year-old went on to detail concerns she has over how Nordic countries are responding to climate change. She noted that the region has a “great reputation around the world when it comes to environmental issues”. “There is no lack of bragging about this,” she said. “There is no lack of beautiful words.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Renown British broadcaster and co-presenter of the motoring show, Top Gear, Jeremy Clarkson has called 16-year-old eco-activist Greta Thunberg a "spoilt brat" after she told the United Nations they had ruined her childhood with climate change. Speaking at the United Nations on Monday Greta broke down in tears while furiously… September 29, 2019 In "Foreign" German Chancellor Angela Merkel says there “is no doubt” that climate change is caused by humans, and that the international community needs to listen to scientists and young people around the world. “We have all heard the wake-up call of youth,” said Merkel, referring to the global youth movement in… September 23, 2019 In "Climate Watch" Weeks back, I told you about Greta Thunberg, a passionate teenage activist from Sweden who took to the stage at the United Nations  General Assembly, UNGA, gathering in New York and blasted world leaders for failing to take climate change seriously. October 11, 2019 In "News"