Angola wants to cash in on the roughly 3 billion cubic feet per day of associated natural gas it produces, most of which is now flared, the petroleum minister said on Wednesday. The announcement of efforts to generate more revenues by reducing gas flaring comes as Africa’s second-largest crude producer faces a fall in output from its mature oil fields. “Over the years, Angola has somewhat neglected to capitalize on the natural resources that it has to offer,” Mineral Resources and Petroleum Minister Diamantino Azevedo said in a brochure released at an African energy conference in Cape Town. He said Angola produced about 3 billion cubic feet per day of associated natural gas, or gas found in association with oil in a reservoir. “Much of this gas was burned or flared and an opportunity for financial recovery was missed, not to mention the damage that was done to the environment,” he said, without giving the precise volume that was flared. The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) in June said Angola’s total natural gas output in 2016 was 413 billion cubic feet, of which 254 billion cubic feet was flared, 88 billion cubic feet was reinjected and 60 billion cubic feet sold. The EIA cited figures from gas data firm Cedigaz. Methane that leaks during oil production and CO2 generated when gas is flared are both greenhouse gases. Angola is developing a $12 billion offshore project to produce 5.2 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas (LNG) a year for export. Angola LNG is a partnership of state-owned Sonangol, Chevron, BP, Eni, and Total. “We are in the process of leveraging other industrial projects for gas monetization, such as fertilizer factories,” the minister said. Angola’s oil ministry said last year crude output could fall to 1 million barrels per day (bpd) by 2023 from 1.9 million bpd in 2008, unless there was fresh investment. The announcement of efforts to generate more revenues by reducing gas flaring comes as Africa’s second-largest crude producer faces a fall in output from its mature oil fields. “Over the years, Angola has somewhat neglected to capitalize on the natural resources that it has to offer,” Mineral Resources and Petroleum Minister Diamantino Azevedo said in a brochure released at an African energy conference in Cape Town. He said Angola produced about 3 billion cubic feet per day of associated natural gas, or gas found in association with oil in a reservoir. “Much of this gas was burned or flared and an opportunity for financial recovery was missed, not to mention the damage that was done to the environment,” he said, without giving the precise volume that was flared. Source: Reuters Vanguard News Nigeria lost $257.43 million, about N78.61 billion, to gas flaring in the first three months of the year, as the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), as well as oil and gas companies operating in the country flared 85.81 billion standard cubic feet, SCF, of gas between January and March 2018. July 24, 2018 In "Energy" Nigeria lost about $1.705 billion (N272.8 billion) to gas flaring, as oil and gas firms operating in the country flared 409.311 billion Standard Cubic Feet, SCF, of gas between January and December 2013. October 7, 2014 In "Sweet Crude" Minister of Petroleum Resources, Mrs. Diezani Alison‑Madueke, yesterday, said that the Federal Government is set to grow natural gas production to eight billion cubic feet per day, as well as sustain crude oil and condensate production at 2.388 million barrels per day. August 6, 2014 In "Business"