Since Muhammadu Buhari assumed office in 2015 as democratic president, I have engaged his government from a policy standpoint, criticizing the policy choices he gets wrong and commending those he gets right, albeit sparingly. From the foregoing, it would seem that the president is still stuck in campaign mode, employing rhetoric and using the mistakes or mis-governance of his predecessor(s) to justify, or maybe seek sympathy, for today’s mishaps. This administration has been in office for five years, not five months; therefore, blaming a government it swore to out-perform is a strong indictment on its record in office.
Taraba records 100 kidnappings in 9 months – Gov. Ishaku This kind of posture, one that continues to pass the buck at a time of heightened insecurity and economic woes cannot be excused. The president owns the bully pulpit now and is constitutionally empowered to ensure the welfare and security of all citizens. This, unfortunately, has not been the case thus far. Only last week, Babar Baloch, spokesperson to UNHCR (the United Nations Refugee Agency), claimed that 40,000 Nigerians have been forced to cross from north-west Nigeria into Niger as a result of an upsurge in violent attacks on civilians. “People are seeking safety from indiscriminate attacks unleashed by organized armed groups on men, women, and children,” said Mr Baloch. According to UNHCR, over 250,000 people have been displaced from the north-east due to increased attacks from insurgents. This has forced another 30,000+ people (in January 2019) alone to flee to the Cameroonian border. Boko Haram, by the way, has increased its attacks on the Nigerian military – killing hundreds and carting away sensitive military equipment. The reality, according to a damning report by the New York Times (and also corroborated by a top military officer quoted in a national newspaper) is that ”while we are battling with refurbished “Shilka,” ISWAP fighters continue to deploy the latest weapons and technology in their sustained attacks. I am however more frightened by the surge in extortion, extrajudicial killings and the intimidation of young Nigerians by a police force that is supposed to protect us. It has become a norm for the police to pick up innocent young people with laptops with a view to subjecting them to harassment, intimidation and extortion. Sometimes, these young people are shot brazenly in full public glare. As a result, young Nigerians have now become deeply traumatized and victimized by a system that not only impoverishes them but also brutalizes them without provocation.  Government at all levels must also learn to take full responsibility for everything that happens under their watch. They cannot enjoy the privileges of high office and avoid the responsibilities that come with it. The government must protect the lives and liberties of all Nigerians however inconvenient it may seem. History has never been kind to those who abdicate their responsibilities and on whose watch the rights of citizens are abused. Vanguard Driven by the need for the new administration to speedily diversify Nigeria economy due to the fall in oil price and the acquisition of $60 billion debt by the last administration, Mr. Joseph Ebata, President of Bervidson Group, and convener of the retails leaders conference in this interview, stresses the… June 15, 2015 In "News" PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari will December 1, present before a Joint session of the National Assembly, the 2017 Appropriation Bill in consonance with the constitutional provision that the President of the country must present the budget for the following year before the end of the preceding financial year. November 24, 2016 In "News" The Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, Friday, cautioned President Mohammadu Buhari against taking the $30 billion foreign loan proposed by the administration, saying there was no guarantee the loan would be repaid in the remaining two years in the life of the administration. December 3, 2016 In "News"