Twitter is only supposed to use phone numbers for two-factor authentication, but it appears to have been unintentionally used for more. The social network has learned that phone numbers and email addresses provided for safety and security (including two-factor authentication) might have “inadvertently” been used for ad purposes, Engadget observed. Advertisers on Twitter can customize promos based on uploaded marketing lists, and Twitter may have matched people on those lists based on phone digits and email addresses that were supposed to be off-limits. “This was an error,” Twitter said. The company maintained that it never shared “personal data” with partners or other outsiders and that it had resolved the problem as of September 17th. It’s also “taking steps” to ensure this doesn’t happen again. Twitter didn’t know how many people might have been affected, though, and was reporting this primarily to be “transparent” about what happened. ⤕Twitter locks Trump’s lawyer account for posting Ukrainian official’s phone number ⤕Nigerians blast sports personality, Charles Anazodo for shading Tiwa savage on Twitter This isn’t likely to go over well with critics when Facebook caught flak just over a year earlier for using phone numbers for ad targeting. Whether or not Twitter intended to use phone numbers, the effect is the same, it was using sensitive account details for ad targeting without users’ knowledge or permission. Regulators may be concerned enough to take a look, especially since they just finished slapping Facebook with fines for its own less-than-careful approach to user data. Vanguard News Nigeria. Across board, staying safe on social media entails using a strong and different password for each of your social media accounts, the longer it is the better. Security answers are better if they are two factor authentications as provided by most social media sites. With friend requests, selectiveness is key,… April 20, 2018 In "News" 6 valid tips to secure your social media account December 20, 2017 In "News" Twitter announced Monday it was easing its 140-character limit on tweets, in the latest effort to broaden the appeal and boost the user base of the social network. The new policy announced in May and now in effect no longer factors in certain add-ons, including pictures, into a message's length. September 19, 2016 In "News"