SPECIAL Adviser to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Community and Rural Development, Mr Emmanuel Okoro, has charged kingdoms Presidents General to partner with the State Government in the task of developing all parts of the State. Okoro who spoke when he played host to the forum of Kingdoms Presidents General
in the State, said his office was created to bridge the gap between community leaders and government. He said the office is saddled with the responsibility to articulate the needs of the people, assuring that the Governor Ifeanyi Okowa was determined to leave an enduring legacy behind at the end of his tenure in 2023. Saying Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has done well in the development of the State in terms of roads, education, job creation, health and otherwise, Okoro who is the Pioneer Speaker of the State House of Assembly, said the Governor is ready to listen to the people and address their needs. According to him, Dr Ifeanyi Okowa is determined to reach out to both urban and rural communities in the State, thanking the group for working hard to deliver Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in his first and second term elections. He said the Governor was aware of the existence of the body, saying that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa appreciates the effort of the Presidents General in assisting to maintain peace and order in their respective clans and kingdoms. Speaking earlier, Chairman of the forum, Prince Igwe Nzekwe said the forum worked hard for the reelection of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, expressing their readiness to assist the State Government to reach out to Deltans. While giving a history of how the forum was formed, Nzekwe said they took the campaign for the reelection of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa to all communities in the State. Vanguard Ahead of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, congresses across the country, Majority Leader of Delta State House of Assembly, Tim Owhefere, has called for a rancour free exercise if the party’s desire to reclaim the presidency in 2019 must come to pass. February 4, 2016 In "News" DELTA State Governor, Senator Dr Ifeanyi  Okowa  on Tuesday  administered oath of office on five Special Advisers saying that their knowledge, wisdom and experience will improve the performance of his administration in its strive to deliver on its electoral promise of a Stronger Delta. July 2, 2019 In "News" Ace political group, Isoko Advancement Network, IAN, has disclosed commitment to the reelection bid of the Delta State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, ahead of the 2019 general election. September 9, 2018 In "News"