 By Peter Duru Makurdi- The Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools, ASUSS, has appealed to the federal government to commence the process of rehabilitating the over 483,692 Internally Displaced Persons, IDPs, in Benue state who are stranded in IDPs camps and in dire need of help. Benue State Chairman of ASUSS/National President of the union, Comrade Samuel Oyigocho made the call yesterday at Abagena IDPs camp where he led officials of the union to donate 65 bags of brown beans to the IDPs to mark the World Teachers’ Day Celebration in the state. He lamented that the federal government had paid little attention to the humanitarian crisis in Benue state, “meanwhile the situation in Benue is worst than what you have in the North East but Benue seemed abandoned by the federal government. “We recall that a year ago, the Vice President was in the IDPs camp and promised that the federal government would rehabilitate the communities destroyed by armed herdsmen, we appeal to the government to fulfill that promise to enable the exhausted IDPs go back home.” He said the relief materials came from Benue state Secondary School Teachers to alleviate the plight of the IDPs and also compliment the state government’s efforts at catering for their needs. Ortom: I’ll not anoint anybody as my successor(Opens in a new browser tab) Receiving the relief materials, the Executive Secretary of Benue State Emergency Management Agency, SEMA, Mr. Emmanuel Shior decried the IDPs situation in the state adding, “what we have here is similar to what we have in the North East. “Regrettable the federal government is not paying attention to the IDPs situation in Benue, though the National Emergency Management Agency, NEMA, is lending support but it is not enough nor near the minimal needs of the IDPs. “We are currently catering for almost 500,000 IDPs which is a huge financial burden on the state government and the implication is that funds meant for development projects are channeled to the needs of the IDPs. It is a huge challenge and we urgently need help.”  I visited the camps in the state with my team and we couldn’t help but weep at what we saw in the camps. It was a pathetic situation March 25, 2018 In "News" From August 2017 to August 2018, Benue State witnessed the worst humanitarian crisis in the history of the state. September 15, 2019 In "Just Human" What manner of country do we have? A country that is not engaged in any conventional war but watches helplessly as thousands of its citizens are turned into refugees. Nigeria is not fighting any external enemy, but the residents have become refugees in their own country. Several thousands of Nigerians… October 5, 2019 In "News"