The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Tuesday, re-arraigned Abdullahi Babalele, said to be son-in-law to former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar, over alleged money laundering charges. The EFCC accused Babalele of allegedly laundering about 140,000 dollars, in the build-up to the last general elections. The defendant was first arraigned on Aug. 14, during the court’s vacation before Justice Nicholas Oweibo, who sat as a vacation judge. He had pleaded not guilty to the charge and was granted bail in the sum of N20 million with one surety in like sum. However, following a re-assignment of the case file to a new judge, Justice Cjukwujekwu Aneke, the defendant was re-arraigned on Tuesday. He also pleaded not guilty to the charges. Justice Aneke granted his request to continue on the earlier bail condition granted him by Justice Oweibo. Meanwhile, after his re-arraignment, Babalele applied to the court for a release of his international passport to enable him to travel abroad for medical treatment. But the prosecution counsel, Mr Rotimi Oyedepo who appeared with A.O Mohammed, opposed the application, arguing that there was no proof that his condition could not be treated in Nigeria. Justice Aneke has, however, adjourned until Oct. 11 for ruling on the bail application. In the charge, EFCC accused the defendant of “procuring one Mohammed to make a cash payment of the sum of 140,000 dollars, without going through any financial institution.” The prosecution said that the money exceeded the threshold stipulated by the Money laundering Act He said that the defendant made committed the offence on Feb. 20. The offences contravene the provisions of Section 16(2) and 18 (c) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential candidate Alhaji Atiku Abubakar has decried the detention of his son in law and lawyer by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). March 4, 2019 In "Elections 2019 Updates" Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, has assured Nigerians that under no circumstance will he mortgage the mandate of Nigerians as freely expressed in the February ,23rd, 2019 Presidential election. March 2, 2019 In "News" Mr Babalele Abdullahi, son-in-law to the Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has been released by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC. March 5, 2019 In "News"