Superstar Nollywood actress, Ini Edo doesn’t have to lay it on the line to tell anyone she’s a sight for sore eyes. She’s unquestionably ravishingly beautiful, alluringly sexy and super talented. It is no big surprise that she stands tall in Vanguard’s record of history as the first runner-up of its maiden edition of the ‘Sexiest in Nollywood’. But that’s not the news, the news is that of all her pictures posted on Instagram or social media for that matter this year, she has revealed the best of all. The very one in this piece. ALSO READ: No one is nicer than me in Nollywood ― Halima Abubakar While it is an arduous task to interpret what a picture says, this Ini Edo’s best of the lot, says a lot about the brown skin which is being trended on social media as ‘Melanin’. For someone who has done so many studio sessions, she (Ini Edo) explains why this remains her best and it was being shot by another Nollywood actress, Isaac Nsikan who has taken to photography. “So my baby sis @isaacnsikan who is an amazing photographer for @leiacolestudios came by mine and offered to take photos of me. Of course, I wasn’t in the mood, so I hesitated and she persisted and finally, I grudgingly obliged. And Behold this masterpiece, so far my best picture this year, I totally want this framed,” she had posted with the picture.   So my baby sis @isaacnsikan who is an amazing photographer for @leiacolestudios came by mine, and offered to take photos of me..ofcourse I wasn't in the mood,so I hesitated and she persisted…and finally I grudgingly obliged ..And Behold this masterpiece….So far my best picture this year,I totally want this framed..so guys what do you think???…rate @isaacnsikan 's photography… A post shared by  Ini Edo (@iniedo) on Oct 14, 2019 at 11:54am PDT  Ini Edo recently signed an ambassadorial deal with @mrtaxi_ng. This is one among many for the actress. Vanguard You may not remember her  name, but you definitely know her face. She hit the limelight in the 80s, producing one of the popular  sitcoms, "Victims" which ran on NTA for years and featuring at a time, Adiela Onyedibia's adaptation of Chinua Achebe's "Things Fall Apart". Mabel Oboh isn't a stranger… September 9, 2017 In "Entertainment" The beautiful thing is that the actress has refused to stay low, she has refused to let her broken home be a barrier to her life and career June 30, 2019 In "Entertainment" Discovering new faces that will take after the likes of Genevieve Nnaji, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde, Ini Edo, Tonto Dike, Uche Jombo and many other A-list actresses when they finally stay off the screen over the years has remained a major issue as far as the Nigerian movie industry is concerned. January 7, 2012 In "Entertainment"