Pope Francis announced on Monday a change in the name of the Vatican’s famous archives, saying they will no longer be known as “secret.” The institution currently known as the “Vatican Secret Archive” will become the “Vatican Apostolic Archive,” Francis said in a decree called Motu Proprio. He explained that this was to avoid negative perceptions of the word “secret”, stemming from a mistranslation of the original Latin denomination. In Latin, “Archivum Secretum” means private, rather than secret archive. The one at the Vatican was created in the early 17th century by Pope Paul V. The archive has been accessible to scholars since 1881. The church said on its website that the archives contained documents related to the government of the church from the 8th century to the 20th century, occupying 85 kilometres of shelving, including some in an underground bunker. Scholars can currently access documents right up to the end of Pope Pius XI’s papacy in February 1939 apart from a few exceptions for more recent papers. On March 2, 2020, materials from Pope Pius XII’s controversial 1939-1958 papacy covering World War II, would also be made available for public scrutiny. Francis announced the decision earlier this year hoping that it would help clear Pius XII’s name from decades-old accusations of failing to confront Nazi Germany about the Holocaust. Vanguard Nigeria News Pope Francis announced on Monday that he has decided to open fully the Vatican’s secret archives on the wartime pontificate of Pope Pius XII, something which Jews have been seeking for decades. March 4, 2019 In "News" Pope Francis said Saturday that silence on sexual abuse can "no longer be tolerated" as he ordered an investigation into Vatican archives concerning former archbishop of Washington Theodore McCarrick, who resigned in July. October 6, 2018 In "News" People serving in the Vatican’s bureaucracy should be loyal to the pope and avoid conspiracies and “little cliques,’’ Pope Francis said in a pre-Christmas address to the Roman Curia. December 21, 2017 In "News"