The Organisation of Technology Advancement for Cold Chain in West Africa (OTACCWA) says 39 exhibitors have indicated interest to exhibit at the second edition of the West Africa Cold Chain (WACCSE) summit 2019, with the theme “Unlocking Practical Cold Chain Solution in Africa” scheduled for Lagos. Local Organizing Committee Chairman of WACCSE 2019 who is also the Vice President of OTACCWA, Tunde Okoya at a press conference in Lagos said that 39 exhibitors are expected at the summit and exhibition. He said: “The timeliness of this summit tallies, as Nigeria is moving towards massive production of dairy foods as backed by the recent government policies through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and without a proper and well established Cold Chain system from the farm gate to the market, reproduction into other products and eventual consumption or export, the nation will not be able to scale, as over 90 per cent of dairy production process is depended on Cold Chain.” According to him, the summit will provide the platform quality discussions and interactions involving stakeholders as valuable opinions will be shared by Co-Founder of New Leaf Dynamic Technologies P. Limited, India, Anurag Agarwal, Director, Innovative Process Solutions, South Africa, Neal De Beer as keynote speakers. Others are Founder, Chief Executive Officer and Editor-in-Chief, Renewables in Africa Limited, Tony Tiyou and Lecturer, Federal University of Petroleum Resources (FUPRE), Engr Joseph Uwaifo Ajayi, Lead Presenters and Okoya as Co-Presenter. Adding, President of OTACCWA, Dr Augustine Okoruwa said WACCSE 2019 is structured to promote and facilitate the development of the Cold Chain system in West Africa. OTACCWA has recognized the importance of an active and dynamic cold chain storage system in the perishable nutrition food supply chain as a means to significantly reduce post-harvest losses of nutritious but perishable food, fresh fruits, vegetable, Seafood, meat, healthcare product and others. The exhibition holds November 5 and 6, 2019. Vanguard No fewer than 3,000 exhibitors from more than 60 countries, including Nigeria, Italy, China, Switzerland and the USA, will converge on Messe Dusseldorf, Germany from October 16-23, 2019 for K international trade fair for plastics and rubber. April 1, 2019 In "News" Players in the construction and building materials sub-sectors of the nation's economy are expected to converge at the 4th International Construction, Building Materials & Technologies Exhibition which is a platform for building, construction and related industries' operators to display their latest products, services, innovations and offer solutions to contractors, built… April 16, 2019 In "News" West Africa’s largest packaging, printing and plastics exhibitions, Propak will by September return to Lagos to boost Nigeria’s value added base especially in the manufacturing sector. Organisers of Propak, Afrocet Montgomery, said the exhibition, which attracts global players in manufacturing and fast moving consumer goods, FCMG sector is expected to… August 20, 2016 In "News"