Serial entrepreneur and fashion stylist of note, Toyin Lawani of Tiannah Place Empire has been ruling supreme on Instagram for all the negative and positive reasons, depending on the side of the fence you are looking. She has been wild, luscious, beautiful and sometimes outrightly bizarre but never without leaving a message. In one of her recent posts, she sent out a word to women who depend solely on their husbands for practically everything. “Women are dominating the industry and showing men they can be wives and bosses at the same time. Women should be able to add value to their men and not depend on them for everything they need,” she wrote on her Instagram page with a picture of herself flanked by five muscular men who appear to be under her captivity. “To me, it’s so irritating when women ask men for money for hair, for soup , for toiletries etc. You should be able to stand in for your man and support the home without him being around. Women should learn to stand strong and change the narrative, we don’t only belong in the kitchen. Over the years, I have had issues with men trying to control me, telling me to let go of my career because I have kids, making me feel like I don’t deserve to chase my dreams. What a man can do, a woman can do better. I’m glad I didn’t relent on chasing my dreams. Well, it came at a cost but it’s worth being happy. Any man that loves you will accept you for who you are and support your dreams – kids or no kids. When you are stable, men can’t give you crap but make sure you respect them too. If you let a man feed you, he will starve you,” she added. Toyin, who has two children for two different men once said she lives her life the way she wants because no man pays her bills. She has become a staple on Instagram lately for her sexually suggestive pictures. Vanguard Self-acclaimed highest paid sex therapy in Nigeria, Hauwa Saidu Mohammed popularly known as Jaaruma of Jaaruma Empire has taken up the challenge thrown by serial beauty and fashion entrepreneur, Toyin Lawani that anyone seeking to have a date with her must first pay her N2 milloion naira by paying the… August 3, 2019 In "Entertainment" By Prisca Sam-Duru Tiannah' Empire' a brand new reality TV show premiered Tuesday, at the IMAX Film House, Lekki Lagos, amidst colours and glamour. The premiere of the reality TV show which will air on EbonLife TV from18th April 2017, attracted notable entertainers both in the music and movie industries.… March 30, 2017 In "Showtime People" Serial entrepreneur, Toyin Lawani of Tiannah’s Place Empire, once said she can do whatever she wants because no man pays her bills or controls her life but she’s obviously not oblivious of the stigma that comes with being a single mother in a society such as ours. April 27, 2019 In "Entertainment"