The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has filed court papers to confiscate a number of properties traced to the embattled former Chairman of the Pension Reforms Task Team, Abdulrasheed Maina. At the same time, the anti-graft agency has filed another motion to get an extended order to detain the former deputy director with the Customs, Immigration and Prisons Pension, CIPPO, who was handed last week by the Department of State Services after being arrested in an undisclosed hotel in Abuja. A top source said last night that the EFCC had traced many houses worth hundreds of millions of Naira at home and abroad to Maina. “The commission strongly believes that these properties which our operatives have traced in Nigeria and in other jurisdictions could have not have been genuinely procured by a civil servant like Maina no matter how long he would have worked in the service,” one of the sources said in Abuja last night. “We have therefore filed for the temporary forfeiture of the mansions traced to him, which we strongly believe are proceeds of economic and financial crimes,” an official said. Beyond the houses, EFCC has traced five companies, which it claimed Maina also used to engage in money laundering and has asked him to provide details of the money in the accounts of the firms. The lists of the firms are Cluster Logistics, Drew    Investment & Construction Ltd, Kongolo Dynamics Cleaning Ltd, “Dr”  AbduUahi A. Faizal,  Nafisatu Aliyu Yeldu and Abdulrasheed Abdullahi  Maina. There were indications last night that Maina might be charged to court this week to answer for a barrage of economic and financial charges leveled against him by the EFCC and the Federal Government. Vanguard News Consequent upon the scandal trailing  the re-appearance in the federal civil service of the wanted ex-chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, PTFPR, Abdulrasheed Maina, details of his alleged monumental looting of the funds left at his disposal by the federal government have begun to emerge - at… October 29, 2017 In "Headlines" THE Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has arrested two top managers of a commercial bank for assisting the former Chairman of Pension Reform Task Team, PRTT, Abdulrasheed Maina, to launder stolen pension funds. Maina is on the run after the EFCC filed charges against him for stealing billions of pension… October 24, 2015 In "News" The Justice Guwa Ogunbanjo-led Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has, Monday, halted move by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, from declaring the former Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Mr. Abdulrasheed Maina, wanted. February 18, 2019 In "News"