BBNaija 2019 ‘pepper Dem Gang’ ex-housemate, Anita Natacha Akide, a.k.a, Tacha, has extended a hand of friendship to the winner of the show, Mercy Eke. Following her disqualification in an argument with Mercy during the 99 day show, Tacha however, extended a hand of friendship to her saying she hopes they can hang out after the BBNaija Pepper Dem. Earlier, Tacha took to her official Twitter handle @Symply Tacha to express her respect and affection for Mercy, before she emerged the winner of the BBNaija 2019. BBNaija (S4): Biggie slams Tacha, Ike, others(Opens in a new browser tab) “Our super eye candy, I love to think we had a unique relationship. I admired you. Yes, our relationship may not have been as close and as interesting as it should have been due to obvious reasons of being alike and trying to avoid having one or two clashes here and there. “But that doesn’t stop you from being the super amazing human being that you are. The game remains the game. “Everything that happened back in the house stays and remains there. You are an amazing human and you deserve the best out of life. Lambo Lambo! I wish you all the best and I wish we can kick back and hang out after the show,” Tacha said. Though Tacha’s disqualification was as a result of physical violence on Mercy during a heated argument, Tacha says Mercy was a ‘super amazing human being.’ Housemates Mike Edwards, Tacha Akide, Cindy Okafor, Elozonam Ogbolu and Ike Oyeama are up for possible eviction. The five housemates were put on the nomination chop by Frodd, the veto power holder, on Monday. Frodd, who won the ultimate veto task was given the power to put any five housemates… September 24, 2019 In "Entertainment" Tacha of Big Brother Naija was disqualified on Friday night following physical violence she indulged into with a fellow housemate, Mercy on Friday morning, 27 September. According to Pulse.ng the spunky 23-year-old Rivers State native lives her life like her favourite musician Cardi B does; “Do no harm but take… September 27, 2019 In "Entertainment" The gangster couple of the ‘Pepper Dem’ house Mercy Eke and Ike Onyema won two million Naira in the ‘Munch it’ challenge. August 11, 2019 In "Entertainment"