The Principal, Neander International School, Epe Lekki Expressway, Idris Agbaje has called on the Lagos State government to help fix the bad portion of Epe-Lekki Expressway that has slowed down vehicular movement, economic and academic activities on the axis. Agbaje stated this during the School’s Cultural and Independence Day anniversary held in the School premises. The Principal, who noted that the deplorable state of the road has caused lot of hardship to people living on the axis, also said that many industries including schools like Neander and others are adversely affected by the poor state of the road. FG seeks more commitment to agric value chain by stakeholders(Opens in a new browser tab) “For the past couple of months, the road leading from Lekki down to Epe has been very terrible. It has become very difficult for cars to pass through the road. It is affecting economic activities and quality of life. Many hours are spent on this road now and also, it is visibly affecting the vehicles that ply the road. The school is also affected as a result of the bad road as parents equally complain. It is not making anybody happy. This area harbors notable companies like the Lekki free trade zone, Dangote refinery including industries springing up. Besides, heavy duty trucks plying the road cause lot of damage to the fragile asphalts that was laid on the road,” says Agbaje. While urging the government to take proactive measures, he said, “I believe that the government has the capacity to fix this road. The shot gap measures government is taking are not really effective. They put sand on the bad spots but once it rains, everything is washed away. Reviving the School band era, the Neander way(Opens in a new browser tab) My appeal is for the Lagos State government to come and permanently fix the roads. We are tired of temporary measures.” Vanguard The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has allayed the anxiety being nurtured by residents of Lekki-Epe axis over the imminent traffic gridlock to be brought by the operations of Dangote Refinery at the corridor. February 14, 2019 In "News" Against the backdrop of the slow pace at which some critical road projects in Lagos are moving, coupled with the attendant challenges faced by movement of people and goods, Lagos State gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress APC, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has pledged to improve on the quality of… January 22, 2019 In "News" Back in the days, there were famous band groups originating from High Schools in the country. School bands such as Ofege, Funkees, Survivals, Sweet Breeze, Blo, Cloud 7 and many other that include solo artists were all products of school band. July 22, 2019 In "News"