Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi on Monday swore in 14 new Permanent Secretaries for the state’s Civil Service. The governor, at a ceremony held at the Government House, Abakaliki urged the appointees to discharge their duties creditably in line with the vision of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 14 new permanent secretaries inaugurated was in addition to the previous 12. The new permanent secretaries includes Mr Christian Achi, Ministry of Health; Mrs Patricia Okiri, Ministry of Budget, Planning and Research and Mr Ogbonnaya Otta, Ministry of Internal Security. Other are: Mr Martin Uguru, Ministry of Housing and Urban Development; Eze Sunday Silas, Ministry of Water Resources and Dr Emmanuel Nwafor, Ministry of Environment. The new appointees also includes Mr Emeokoro Chukwuma, Ministry of Solid Minerals producing communities; Okoronkwo Jonathan, Ministry of Youths and Sports Development and Mr Ituma Elijah, Ministry of Commerce and Industry. “We are integrating you totally into the mainstream of government activities. And you must also know that you are now 50 and 100 per cent civil and public servants,” Umahi said. FG begins sale of 2, 3 year savings bonds at 11. 244%, 12.244% for October(Opens in a new browser tab) Meanwhile, the State’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Cletus Ofoke enjoined the new appointees to justify the confidence reposed on them by the state government. “I urge you to follow the rules of your various offices,” Ofoke said. Otta, who spoke unbehalf of other appointees, promised to deliver their duties diligently.  Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has approved the appointment of 180 additional aides to serve as Executive Assistants (EA) as Executive Assistant and Senior technical Assistant (STA). September 16, 2019 In "News" Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi has ordered the immediate retirement of all permanent secretaries in the state’s civil service. This is contained in a statement signed by the governor’s Principal Secretary, Chief Clement Nweke, and made available to the media on Sunday in Abakaliki. November 15, 2015 In "News" By Chukwuemeka Opara Abakaliki - Gov. David Umahi of Ebonyi has ordered the immediate suspension of the state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Augustine Nwankwagu, for non-commitment to duty. The governor also indefinitely suspended the state Solicitor-General and Permanent Secretary of the ministry of Justice, Mr Jonathan Okoronkwo… March 30, 2017 In "News"