Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun on Wednesday said that his government would prioritise road construction as part of efforts to attract more investment to the state. Abiodun said this during a town hall meeting held in Ilaro, in the Yewa -South council area of the Ogun-West Senatorial District of the state. The meeting was held to take input from people of the area ahead of the preparation of the 2020 budget. ALSO READ: Minimum Wage: FG, Labour Meeting ends in deadlock A similar meeting was recently held in Ijebu -Ode to seek the opinions of the people of the Ogun-East Senatorial District. The governor said that it was important to embark on road infrastructure if more investments were expected in the state. Abiodun explained that Ogun-West senatorial district remained the industrial hub of the state, hence, the need to ensure that road networks in the axis were of good quality. “If indeed we want to be serious about bringing investments into our dear state, if we indeed want to support the senatorial district, we must do something about the quality of the road infrastructure. ”If we want this senatorial district to continue to be the leading senatorial district in this country in terms of industrialisation, we must do something about the quality of the road infrastructure so as to continue to attract more investment to the area. “We will ensure that we include the roads in our budget and ensure that critical roads are given quick attention. “It is a self-evident truth that without this senatorial district, we can not be Gateway state. I, therefore, consider this district as a priority,” he said Abiodun promised that comments, recommendations and proposals of the people raised at the meeting would be carefully considered in the preparation of the 2020 budget Many stakeholders who spoke at the meeting had described road infrastructure as the major need of the area. They complained that most of the roads in the area were in deplorable condition. Vanguard B James Ogunnaike The Ogun State Governor,  Prince Dapo Abiodun has disclosed that he will demolish the Model College at Ilaro in Yewa South Local Government Area of the State constructed by the immediate past administration of Senator Ibikunle Amosun. Abiodun, who made the disclosure at the town hall meeting… October 16, 2019 In "Education" A former member of the House of Representatives, Hon Abiodun Akinlade has described the victory of Governor Dapo Abiodun at the Ogun State Governorship Election Tribunal as well-deserved for democracy and the good people of Ogun State. In a congratulatory statement issued and signed by Akinlade in Owode, Yewa South… September 17, 2019 In "News" Since the key issues surrounding the just-concluded Ogun state party primary elections of the All Progressives Congress (APC) are still clearly in the public domain, all that needs to be done here as a preface to this piece, is a quick summary of the details that led to the emergence… October 28, 2018 In "News"