Lagos will reverberate in two months time as legendary singer, Tubaba stages his  historic concert tagged ‘20years A King.’ The concert,  a celebration of 2baba’s 20 years in the Nigerian music industry since the release of the classic hit ‘Knock Me Off’ as a member of the now-defunct Plantashun Boiz in 1999, is slated for 28th of December, 2019, at Eko Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. 2baba who has been praised by fans and critics alike for his consistency over the years revealed that the night will be one to remember as he is fully prepared to make the concert bigger  and better than the  live shows he has done in the past. PMAN appoints consultant for Nigeria’s music industry(Opens in a new browser tab) Announcing the concert on his social media pages, 2baba said “December 28! Lagos, are you ready? Make it a date with me. It’s going to be a December like no other.” Since the announcement of the show, fans and music lovers have dominated the comment section expressing excitement and anticipation. The concert will witness one-of-a-kind performance as 2baba is set to take fans down memory lane; performing songs from the early stage of his career till date. It will also feature performances from other big shots in the Nigerian music scene. When Afro-pop music legend, Innocent Ujah Idibia, a.k.a 2Face, now fondly called 2Baba, began his solo music career in 1999, after his exit from Plantashun Boyz, he probably had the slightest idea if the light of fame would shine on him at all. May 4, 2019 In "Entertainment" For the Nigerian music industry 2017 resonated with series of melodramatic dynamics which eventually culminated in what could be described as a fun year. And as it wraps up Showtime recalls with nostalgic feelings artiste concerts that rocked the industry. December 30, 2017 In "Music" 2018 was unarguably an amazing year for the Nigerian music industry. With the release of credible hit songs from 2Baba, Davido, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Falz, Simi, Adekunle Gold, Kizz Daniel, Duncan Mighty, Yemi Alade, Victor AD, Barry Jhay, Erriga, Teniola, Flavour, Reekado Banks, Skibi, Mayorkun, Dremo, Olamide, Chinko Ekun, Zlatan… January 12, 2019 In "Music"