Troops of Operation Thunder Strike have rescued three villagers abducted from their farms on Wednesday in Maro village along Kaduna-Abuja highway. The Deputy Director Army Public Relations, 1 Division Nigerian Army Kaduna, Col. Ezindu Idimah told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Kaduna that one of the kidnappers was killed in the operation. “Acting on a piece of credible information, troops raided the hideout of the bandits where they held the farmers and engaged them in a firefight. “Following, the firefight, one bandit was neutralized and others escaped with gunshot wounds leaving behind the victims.
“The rescued farmers had since been handed over to their families,” he said. Idimah said an AK 47 rifle with two 7.62 special ammunition were recovered at the scene. “The General Officer Commanding, 1 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya has again called on the general public to report any person with gunshot wounds to the nearest security post for prompt action.” Vanguard Troops of Operation Thunder Strike have rescued six kidnapped students of Government Day Secondary School, Gwagwada in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The students were abducted on their way to school on Thursday morning. The Deputy Director of Public Relations, 1 Division Nigeria Army, Kaduna, Col. Ezindu Idimah,… October 11, 2019 In "News" Troops of Operation Thunder Strike have rescued six students of Government Day Secondary School Gwagwada in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State abducted on their way to school on Thursday morning. The Deputy Director Public Relations of 1Division Nigeria Army Kaduna, Col. Ezindu Idimah told the News Agency of… October 11, 2019 In "News" Troops of Operation Thunder Strike have rescued six students of Government Day Secondary School Gwagwada in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State abducted on their way to school on Thursday morning. The Deputy Director Public Relations of 1Division Nigeria Army Kaduna, Col. Ezindu Idimah told the News Agency of… October 11, 2019 In "News"