Egyptian President Abdel Fattah Saeed Hussein Khalil El-Sisi sees himself as the saviour of his country. Therefore, when in September street protests broke out asking him to step down, he was furious. Within two weeks, he  detained over 2,300 persons, including hundreds that were picked up in their homes.  The detainees  include 111 minors, aged between 11 and 17 years and 68 women. The Sisi government which said as at September 26, it had processed 1,000 people for trial , vowed that it  “will confront with utmost firmness and determination attempts at undermining stability and social peace”. Such massive sweep of the streets by Sisi is not uncommon since he   seized power in a 2013 coup. The following year, he had resigned from the army to contest elections in which he was declared winner with 97 percent of the votes. In the 2018 elections, he had not bordered to exact much energy as he simply ensured that he had no opponents to contend with. Before the current crackdown, he had detained over sixty thousand  persons, including foreigners. Lawyer tasks leaders on rule of law(Opens in a new browser tab) Sisi has focused on professionals, including doctors and journalists, to break them and send a message to the rest of society.  One of his most infamous shows was the December 29, 2013, detention of three Al Jazeera journalists, Australian Peter Greste and Egyptian Baher Mohamed. Just for carrying stories critical of the regime, the journalists were accused of belonging to a terrorist organisation, aiding and funding the group, broadcasting false news and operating without licenses. They were held until 2015 when Greste was released and deported in February and later, Sisi granted pardon to the two others. They were luckier than their other Al Jazeera colleague, Mahmoud Hussein. Based in Qatar, he had on December 20, 2016 arrived Egypt to visit his family.  He has been in detention since then! Tragically, the rest of the world simply watch as Sisi transforms Egypt into a giant prison.  He had rejected appeals for proper medical treatment for former Prime Minister Mohammed Morsi and allowed him to die. He had also  joined some Gulf States to demand that Al Jazeera be scrapped. Unfortunately, international institutions that should have called him to order are courting him.  When he initially came to power, the African Union, AU, rejected him. Today, he is the chair of that  same continental organisation. The United States which claims to be the bastion of democracy and champion of human rights rolled out the red carpet to  receive him in 2017 rather than chide him for the wide human rights abuses he is perpetuating. President Donald Trump in inviting Sisi to visit, had praised him, arguing that Sisi has “done a tremendous job under trying circumstance”. In the history of dictators and fascists like Spain’s Francisco Franco, Germany’s Adolf Hitler and Italy’s Benito Mussolini, the leaders of the so-called free world  had always accepted them and  turned against them only when their interests were  threatened.  Principles do not seem to count. The same they are doing to the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed  bin Salman whose hands drip with the blood of journalist Kamal  Kashoggi who was murdered and dismembered in the Saudi consulate in Turkey. Expectedly, Sisi argues he is in the right and that the tens of thousands he has detained or sentenced  for politically disagreeing with him, are terrorists. In January, he told the American CBS’s 60 Minutes programme: “I said there are no political prisoners in Egypt. Whenever there is a minority trying to impose their extremist ideology we have to intervene regardless of their numbers”. As the Egyptians were protesting so were the Indonesians. The latter protest was against a new criminal code that eats away at their fundamental human rights. Anybody with a scant knowledge of Indonesia would realise that the protests, mainly led by students, can be a matter of life or death. In 1965, there were alleged attempted coups on September 30, and October 1 by Indonesian leftist elements. The army,  led by General  Suharto,  countered these  moves, leading  to  the massacre  of members of the  Communist Party of Indonesia, PKI,  alleged leftists and ethnic Chinese. Over one million persons were murdered in that crackdown. Suharto then unseated President Sukarno and ruled for 31 years. The new laws want to criminalise political thought and affiliation which would give fascists in Indonesia a legal basis to repress  radical political thoughts and movements. A second incidence  in Indonesian history, involves a former Governor of Jakarta, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, alias  Ahok, an ethnic Chinese  Christian who  was Jakarta’s first non-Muslim governor in half a century. Ahok was accused of blasphemy over comments he made during a pre-election campaign. In  a speech during campaigns in September 2016,  he had argued that claims by  some  Islamic leaders that Muslims were forbidden  from voting for  a non-Muslim leader, was an attempt to hoodwink voters.  This was regarded by the majority Muslim leaders as blasphemy and he was jailed for two years in 2017. He left prison this year after 20 months. The new laws  canvassed  by President Widodo are seen as further strengthening the blasphemy laws in a country with other  official religions. The new criminal code which was finalised by a parliamentary taskforce on September 15, would outlaw pre-marital and extramarital sex, and cohabitation for unmarried couples.  Under Article 419, “living together as husband and wife without being married” carries a punishment of up to six months imprisonment. It also regulates sex education and use of contraceptives. With rape being difficult to prove, a victim can be accused of pre-marital sex, and abortions carry a  four-year jail term for unauthorised abortions. The proposed laws expand sharia laws and those of blasphemy. You also go to jail if you insult the President or Vice President. With that, freedom of expression is curtailed. Jail also awaits anybody espousing or associating with Marxist-Leninist thoughts or organisations.  That means that tertiary institutions can only teach  capitalism or conservative politics. Effectively, radical thoughts are to be outlawed.  Also outlawed is  “Black Magic”, a concept that can cover a wide range of activities. Also, anybody who attacks the “integrity or objectivity” of judges, or publishes any material that can influence the judiciary’s  objectivity, goes to jail. Sisi and Widodo are perfecting ways to criminalize not just the actions, but also, thoughts of their political opponents so as to  make any challenge against them impossible.  Interestingly, they do this under the canopy of democracy.   An Egyptian human rights and labour lawyer, Khaled Ali, says conditions are so dire in Egypt that anyone could beat President Abdel-Fattah Al-Sisi in the 2018 presidential election if the vote is held fairly. June 8, 2017 In "News" Egyptian President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi has been reelected for a second term with 92 percent of the vote, preliminary results showed on Thursday, but turnout of just 40 percent dented his push for popular legitimacy. March 29, 2018 In "News" Egyptian voters have overwhelmingly backed constitutional changes that could see President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi's rule extended to 2030, the electoral board said Tuesday. April 23, 2019 In "Foreign"