Following the arrest of Nasir Danu at the Heathrow Airport, United Kingdom, for alleged passport scam and money laundering, the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, on Saturday jeered at President Muhammadu Buhari’s Presidency and the All Progressives Congress, APC, urging them to defuse the situation and take a stand. Disclosing this in a statement signed by Kola Ologbondiyan, National Publicity Secretary of the party, PDP, said that Nasir Danu is Buhari’s known confidant, noting that it was the reason behind the Presidency’s silence on the issue. The party therefore insists that the silence by the Presidency on the matter since the report of Danu’s arrest and deportation is self-indicting, particularly given his reported confessions and alleged links to persons closely related to Mr. President. Takeaways from Buhari’s visit to South Africa – Shehu(Opens in a new browser tab) This is in addition to apprehensions in the public space that he was caught while allegedly ferrying stolen currencies for persons said to be close to the Presidency. Read the statement below: “The party says the Buhari Presidency must also speak out on this huge scandal and allegations that Danu’s has been in the business of connecting the said close relation of the President with many oil contractors for alleged underhand deals through which billions of naira get frittered. The PDP notes that this is beside allegations of being a front for scandalous contracts running into billions of naira from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, among other government agencies. The party cautions the Buhari Presidency to perish the thoughts of concealing this scandal as it is already in the public domain with Nigerians demanding for investigations. Chibok Girls: Buhari protecting a fake reputation that adds no value, says BBOG(Opens in a new browser tab) The PDP therefore charges the Buhari Presidency to immediately order an open investigation into the matter and expose those in this scandalous racket. Nigerians can now further see how the Buhari Presidency stinks. Our party therefore insists that for a government that always orchestrates claims of integrity and zero tolerance for corruption, it behoves on the Presidency to come clean as well as order an investigation into this huge allegation”. Vanguard The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has tasked the National Assembly to look into what it called the “current power vacuum,” arising from the President Muhammadu Buhari’s departure for the United Kingdom (UK) on Monday. This is even as the party accused the first citizen of shrouding his “private visit” to… April 12, 2018 In "News" ABUJA: The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described as degrading and completely unacceptable, the jocular declaration made by President Muhammadu Buhari, that Nigerians youths should not contest the Presidency in the 2019 general elections. June 1, 2018 In "News" The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) describes as laughable, President Muhammadu Buhari’s heinous plot to frame the PDP Presidential Candidate, Atiku Abubakar, out of fear that he is already coasting to victory in the February 16 Presidential election. January 18, 2019 In "News"