Bayelsa State Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Hon Markson Fefegha who resigned his appointment on October 18, 2019, has rescinded the decision. Fefegha, in a letter announcing his return to the Peoples Democratic Party-led administration in the state said the decision to resign was due to a breakdown in communication and urged his teeming supporters to join in the concerted efforts to support the PDP to victory in the forthcoming election. The letter reads: “It is with a deep sense of responsibility that I address my colleagues, political associates, and supporters through this medium. READ ALSO: PDP sets up sub-c’ttees for Bayelsa gov election “You will recall that I resigned my appointment as Hon Commissioner for Mineral Resources on the 18th of October, 2019 because of what I perceived as“political uncertainty” and other considerations. “This was due largely to the communication gap between me and His Excellency Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson Governor of Bayelsa State at the time. Having met and discussed with him, I have reconsidered my decision to remain in the party and the government. “Over the years, we have shared bonds of friendship and the mystic cord of brotherhood, which cannot be sacrificed on the altar of political exigencies. READ ALSO: Dickson appoints 60 Special Advisers “I shall continue to lavish adulation to his developmental efforts and quality of leadership to Bayelsa State and the Ijaw nation “I urge all my supporters to remain steadfast and continue to support the People’s Democratic Party. “Let us join hands together to build a prosperous Bayelsa State. I thank you for your understanding.” vanguard KOLUAMA I—IT was celebration galore, weekend, for eight oil-bearing communities on the Atlantic fringe of Bayelsa State as KEFFES Rural Development Foundation, RDF, inaugurated 20 capital projects in the communities hosting operations of Chevron Nigeria Limited, CNL,  in the predominately riverine state. December 18, 2018 In "News" BAYELSA State Commissioner for Mineral Resources, Elder Markson Fefegha, has restated the position of the state government in the on-going reforms in the petroleum industry. June 4, 2018 In "News" As a part of its commitment to social performance and demonstration of value to its neighbouring communities within the Niger-Delta Communities, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and FIRST Exploration and Petroleum Development Company Limited (FIRST E&P) Joint Venture have signed a Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU) with the KEFFES… August 30, 2018 In "News"