Tanzanian President John Magufuli said that money to be recovered from economic crimes would be used to build nationwide road networks. Magufuli said this shortly after he had launched a 76.6 km road from Kanazi-Kizi-Kibaoni in Katavi region that cost about 45 million dollars (100.5 billion Tanzanian shillings). “Money to be refunded by people charged with financial crimes will be used to construct roads that will connect all regions across the country,” Magufuli said. The president said after connecting the whole country by the road network, it will be easier to connect the country with other neighbouring countries. “People should be able to travel by road from Uganda to South Africa via Tanzania to do business,” said Magufuli. On Sept. 22, Magufuli gave seven days to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Biswalo Mganga, to consider offering forgiveness to remandees charged with economic sabotage or money laundering, who will repent and refund the money that they had laundered. Mganga added: “These people have agreed to refund the money that they laundered, and we are still receiving more letters from others facing similar charges from upcountry.” The DPP said the 467 facing various financial crimes have pledged to refund a total amount of about 47 million dollars. Mganga said some of them have agreed to pay directly while others have requested to pay in installments. Source: NAN Vanguard News Tanzania’s president, John Magufuli said on Sunday people held on charges of tax evasion, money laundering and other financial crimes should be freed if they confess and return the cash. Magufuli said it was only a recommendation and it was not immediately clear what impact his words would have on… September 23, 2019 In "Foreign" I WAS in Accra this past week and saw a Toyota van with inscription "APC". I initially thought an APC official from Nigeria was in town. But upon looking closely, I saw it was "All Peoples Congress" with a broom as its logo.It then dawned on me that the rumoured… February 23, 2016 In "Candid Notes" THERE is a familiar ring to all that has been happening in our nation these past few weeks. It is like history repeating itself all over but, this time it is so close to the immediate past and penultimate governments. December 22, 2015 In "Viewpoint"