Venezuela is one of the places in the world with cheapest price of gasoline. Fuel so heavily subsidized that a full tank costs close to nothing ― a tiny fraction of the worth of one dollar. The country has been hit with hyperinflation making its currency significantly weakened. Presently, 1 naira = 27 Venezuelan Boliver. Coupled with the heavy subsidised gas price, the motorists in Venezuelan are now paying with bag of rice, cooking oil, cigarette, candy bar and any other thing within reach whenever they do not have cash in their wallet. “You can pay with a cigarette,” said Orlando Molina, filling up his subcompact Ford Ka in Caracas. “Heck, it’s no secret to anyone that it goes for nothing.” Gas is so dirt-cheap that station attendants don’t even know the price. Emptyhanded drivers get waved through, paying nothing at all. This barter system, while perhaps the envy of cash-strapped drivers outside the country, is just another symptom of bedlam in Venezuela. The South American nation of roughly 30 million people is gripped by a deepening political and economic crisis. People live with a nagging feeling that anything from violent street protests to a massive power failure could throw their lives into chaos at any moment. More than 4 million Venezuelans have fled the country in recent years, escaping low wages, broken hospitals, failing basic services and lack of security. The International Monetary Fund says inflation is expected to hit a staggering&nbsp;200,000% this year. Venezuela dropped five zeros from its currency last year in a futile attempt to keep up with inflation. Soaring prices quickly devoured the new denominations. The smallest bill in circulation, 50 bolivars, is worth about a quarter of a U.S. penny. City buses and even banks don’t accept it, arguing it would take such a thick wad of bills to pay for even the most modest items that it wouldn’t be worth the trouble. The largest bill, 50,000 bolivars, equals $2.50. Venezuela, which sits atop the world’s largest oil reserves, was once rich. But the economy has fallen into ruin because of what critics say has been two decades of corruption and mismanagement under socialist rule. President Nicolás Maduro’s hold on power is under challenge from opposition politician Juan Guaidó, who has the backing of the United States and more than 50 other countries that contend Maduro’s re-election in 2018 was crooked. Gasoline prices are a deadly serious matter in Venezuela. Roughly 300 people died in 1989 during riots that erupted after the country’s president at the time ordered a modest rise in fuel prices. Amid the economic crash, Maduro has not substantially raised gas prices, a strategy that was probably reinforced after violent protests recently forced the president of Ecuador to back off plans to end fuel subsidies there. Maduro has acknowledged that the state-run oil company, PDVSA, loses billions of dollars a year because of the discrepancy between the price of gasoline and the costs of production. At the most, a tank of Venezuelan gasoline has historically cost the equivalent of a few U.S. pennies. Because of inflation and devaluation of the currency, that has plunged even further. Caracas resident Maria Perez filled up one day recently, handing the attendant the equivalent of one penny, the smallest bill she had. Most drivers would gladly pay the true price of gas if the government would use the proceeds to invest in services, she said. “Our roads are unbearable,” she said while running errands on her day off with her mother in the passenger seat. “There are huge holes — craters — that not only damage our cars but also put our own lives at risk.” ⤖When the Venezuelan vice president came calling ⤖Buhari to participate in Russia–Africa Summit in Sochi Gasoline in Venezuela’s capital of Caracas, the seat of power and largest population centre, has so far been immune from the shortages and mile-long lines that plague other parts of the country and can leave drivers waiting for days to reach the pump. Officials blame the shortages on U.S. sanctions against PDVSA. Service station attendant Orlando Godoy stacked the food and drinks he received from drivers on top of the pumps — a bag of cooking flour, cooking oil, a bottle of mango juice. He earns minimum wage, which amounts to a few dollars a month, so the food helps feed his family. “A lot of people show up saying they don’t have cash to pay,” he said. “The idea is to help people because Venezuelans are going through a rough situation.” [Most contribution from AP] Vanguard News Nigeria. The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) on Friday said that the ongoing fuel scarcity in the country might linger till the end of March. March 11, 2016 In "News" Motorists in some parts of the South West, including Oyo State, Osun and Ogun are going about their businesses unhindered with the availability of petrol and normal operations at filling stations, contrary to acute shortage of the product in many parts of the country. The survey showed that the pump… December 8, 2017 In "News" Motorists around Abuja on Tuesday blamed owners of filling stations for selling petroleum products below capacity, thereby causing artificial scarcity of the white products. December 6, 2017 In "News"