Southampton have donated their wages from last Friday’s historic 0-9 thrashing at the hands of Leicester to charity. The club have revealed the players have been working at the Staplewood training centre throughout the weekend as they look to put right the devastation at St Mary’s – the Premier League’s biggest-ever away win. “As the first step towards that, the group has decided that they wish to donate their wages from the day of the Leicester game to Saints Foundation, in order to help the vital work that is conducted by the charity,” the club said. “The players and staff are now directing all their energy and focus towards the two games in Manchester this week.” Southampton face back-to-back visits to Manchester City this week, first in the Carabao Cup last-16 on Tuesday, and then in the Premier League on Saturday. Saints boss Ralph Hasenhuttl apologized to the fans after Friday night’s devastation on the south coast, and captain Nathan Redmond admitted it was “the stuff of nightmares”. The winger told Sky Sports: “It was an embarrassing performance. It just wasn’t good enough and one of the poorest performances since I’ve been at the club. “We’ll have to debrief that whole game from start to finish tomorrow. There were a host of things that went wrong – the red card decision and then the quick goal at the same time. We need to do much, much better.” Saints Foundation works with 12,000 young people and adults of all ages every year, using the power and passion of sport to transform lives. Source: Sky Sports Vanguard News  By Temisan Amoye, Lagos Brendan Rodgers Leicester City continued their impressive premier league form, steamrolling Southampton 9-0, equalling the premier league record for largest win. A record earlier set by Manchester United in a 9-0 victory against Ipswich Town at Old Trafford in 1995.   Leicester City took the trip… October 26, 2019 In "Sports" Premier League champions Manchester City began their FA Cup campaign with a 7-0 thrashing of Rotherham on Sunday but Fulham, battling to avoid relegation from English football's top-flight, were beaten 2-1 by fourth-tier Oldham. January 6, 2019 In "Sports" Liverpool enjoyed the early Christmas present of a shock defeat for Manchester City to move four points clear at the top and further raise hopes their near three-decade wait to win the title could come to an end in May. December 23, 2018 In "News"