Fans trooped into Terra Kulture en masse between the 4th and 6th of October for the 2nd Edition of Sound Sultan’s Satirical Musical titled, ‘Jungle Story 2’. The highly anticipated show, which featured many of Nigeria’s most prominent actors and musicians, was just as entertaining as it was enlightening. The show told the story of a land that became a jungle due the corrupt practices indulged in by its citizens. It went further to highlight the ills in the society as well as proffer solutions on how they can be tackled. Nigerians react as BBNaija season four ends(Opens in a new browser tab) Joining Sound Sultan in the musical were, 2Baba, RMD, Johnny Drille, Femi Kuti, Odunlade Adekola, Osas Ajibade, Femi Branch, Peruzzi, Dare Art-Alade, HarrySongz, Seyi Shay, Helen Paul, Ninja Band, Jumabee, Crown Troupe, Basketmouth, Kate Henshaw, Wale Ojo, Jimi Solande, Waje, Praiz, Niniola, Vector, Segun Adefila, Pocco Lee, Lasisi Elenu, and a host of other celebrities. Day one of the show also doubled as the handover ceremony of the Amstel Malta Box Office that was donated to Terra Kulture. The attendees were grossly entertained and were quick to commend Amstel Malta for supporting such a remarkable show. Vanguard In celebration of his 19th year as a performer, Sound Sultan will be delivering a brilliant, entertaining and enlightening musical, titled ‘Jungle Story 2’ at Terra Kulture Victoria Island, between the 4th to 6th of October. October 7, 2019 In "Entertainment" Tolulope Abereoje Nigerian musician, Lanre Fasasi (stage name: Sound Sultan) has unveiled details for the second edition of his star-studded broadway-styled musical, tagged Jungle Story 2. The highly anticipated show, which features many of Nigeria’s most prominent actors and musicians, is scheduled to hold from Friday, October 4th to Sunday… September 29, 2019 In "Entertainment" 2Baba’s fully-scripted and highly exhilarating musical concert, ‘Buckwyld ‘n’ Breathless’, returns with a bang on Saturday, October 20 at the Eko Convention Centre. September 29, 2018 In "Entertainment"