 Nigerians in Russia have told President Muhammadu Buhari that they are proud of him for his display maturity and patriotism by visiting South Africa at the wake of xenophobic attacks on Nigerians in the country. This is as President Buhari has promised that his administration will protect Nigerians at home and in the diaspora. The President met with the cross-section of Nigerians in Sochi, Russia on the sidelines of his official visit for the Russia – Africa Summit. In his remarks at the interactive session with the President, the President of Nigerians in Diaspora Organisation (NIDO) in Russia, Chukwujeku Ejike Sam-Fester, said President Buhari demonstrated a high sense of maturity and patriotism by visiting South Africa on October 3rd, 2019, to discuss issues relating to attacks on foreigners, including Nigerians, in the country. He said, “We are proud of you for taking that step to reconcile not only Nigeria and South Africa but the entire continent.” Sam-Fester urged the government to extend gestures like the National Identity Card, BVN, 10-year validity passport and encourage more participation in governance by inviting professionals in foreign countries to provide services. The President in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu promised to stretch government’s reach and capacity in protecting all Nigerians, not minding the distance. He said, “The life of every Nigerian, in every part of the world matters.” He told a gathering of students and professionals in Sochi, towards the conclusion of his three-day visit to Russia, where he participated in the Russia-Africa Summit that had about 40 Heads of State and governments participating that,“Our government will protect Nigerians at home, and abroad,.’ President Buhari said the Nigeria Diaspora Commission, headed by Abike Dabiri-Erewa, was established to ensure a forward and backward link for all Nigerians living outside the country by catering for their safety and needs, and providing a platform for many who would like to contribute to the development of the country with their skills, knowledge and resources. “Don’t forget your home,’’ the President said, advising all Nigerians living in foreign countries to be law-abiding and work very hard to excel in their studies and chosen careers. The President assured that his administration will always be people-focused, pointing out that all the programmes of the administration had been tailored to buoy the economy and protect the poor and vulnerable. “We must create jobs to meet the growing demands in the country, and we are looking at agriculture already,’’ he added. President Buhari noted that the government also introduced Social Investment Programmes to directly impact the lives of poor people. “Yesterday I met with Russian President, Vladimir Putin and we discussed some of the areas of shared interest which includes pushing for diversification of the economy in agriculture and solid minerals. Incidentally, we have a lot in common. “Russia exports crude oil like Nigeria, and it is the second-largest producer of gas in the world. A lot can be learnt from their journey. We will collaborate in agriculture, oil and gas, and solid minerals exploration,’’ he said. The Nigerian Ambassador, Prof Steve Davies Ugbah, said the President had restored the pride of all Nigerians by consistently meeting with citizens in countries he visited. In her remarks, a Nigeria female student in Russia, Kadija Mohammed Babanzara, commended the President for consistency in the payment of bursaries to students. “Since you came into power, our bursaries are paid in full and timely. We are grateful,’’ she said. Vanguard News Nigeria. President Muhammadu Buhari says the life of every Nigerian, in every part of the world matters, promising to stretch the government’s reach and capacity in protecting all Nigerians, not minding the distance. The President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, in a statement in Abuja on… October 25, 2019 In "News" ....Tells Diaspora Nigerians to use their resources develop Nigeria By Johnbosco Agbakwuru President Buhari on Friday said that he was shocked over the attacks on Nigerians in South Africa. He described the attacks of foreign nationals in the country as an embarrassment to the African continent.  President Buhari who stated this… October 5, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has advised Nigerians in The Diaspora to always remember their country with skills, resources and talents, and work towards living decent and dignified lives that bring honour to their fatherland. October 4, 2019 In "News"