Former U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Chas Freeman made this known in an interview with Sputnik. On Sunday, President Donald Trump announced that U.S. forces hunted down al-Baghdadi in Syria’s Idlib province. Trump said that al-Baghdadi blew up himself and three accompanying children by detonating a suicide vest when he found himself trapped at the end of a tunnel. “His (al-Baghdadi’s) removal may well lead to a reinvigoration of the movement under a less reclusive leader,” Freeman, who also served as U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, said. “The problem with assassinating leaders is that one cannot know for sure who will succeed them and whether the successor will be more or less effective than his dead predecessor,” he added. According to Freeman, although al-Baghdadi was the founding father of the Islamic State, in recent years he has been essentially absent and invisible. “He, therefore, did not seem to have much grip on the members of the Islamic State. “It is not clear what role he played in the Islamic State’s territorial expansion or its collapse,” he said. The assassination of al-Baghdadi may affect U.S. politics or even distract voters from the continual ratcheting up of the impeachment process against Trump, Freeman acknowledged. However, with respect to the situation in Syria, little will change. “In the real world of contention for control of Syria, it is unlikely to mean much,” he concluded. Chas Freeman is a lifetime director of the Atlantic Council and served as U.S. Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d’affaires at the U.S. embassies in Beijing and Bangkok.  For all the attention, invention and investment that the U.S. intelligence community devotes to spy satellites, communications intercepts, and new technologies such as artificial intelligence, the raid that killed ISIS Leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi were launched by the same old-fashioned tool that led to Osama bin Laden: human intelligence. TIME… October 28, 2019 In "Foreign" A special forces commander from Kentucky has been identified as one of the soldiers who helped bring down ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Dailymail reports that Lieutenant General Scott Howell, of Cadiz, Kentucky, has been credited with helping plan and lead the dramatic raid to kill al-Baghdadi in Syria on Saturday night. READ… October 28, 2019 In "Foreign" United States President Donald Trump has confirmed the killing of fugitive Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi by U.S. special forces in a raid in northwest Syria. Speaking to newsmen at the White House on Sunday morning, Trump said Baghdadi killed himself by detonating his suicide vest during the operation… October 28, 2019 In "Foreign"