Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun, on Saturday, gave automatic employment to the best graduating student of the Crescent University, Abeokuta, Abdulsalam Ibironke, in the state civil service. The governor announced the automatic employment while speaking at the 11th convocation ceremony of the institution, in Abeokuta. Abiodun, represented by his Deputy,  Noimot Salako-Oyedele, said that the employment would take effect after the completion of the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme by Ibironke . He said that his administration would not renege on its efforts until it had completely revamp the comatose state of its educational sector to an enviable one among comity of states. Governor Abiodun explained that the state remained the education capital of the country going by its highest numbers of institutions, saying it was important to provide necessary machineries to transform the state education sector. “We are committed to education and for people who have been following our progress in the last four and the half weeks, you will see that our efforts in the educational sector is really bringing the state back to its rightful position. “Our institutions that have been shut down due to one issue or the other have resumed and our students are very happy,” Abiodun said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Ibironke of the Department of Chemical Sciences emerged overall best student of the institution. Earlier, the Founder and Proprietor of the Institution, Bola Ajibola, gave thanks to Almighty Allah who made it possible to witness another landmark in the history of the institution. 2019 POLLS: INEC offers automatic employment to ad-hoc NYSC members Ogun job portal hits 25,000 mark in 5 days Ajibola also congratulated the graduands and their parents who had supported them through thick and thin. In his remark, Prof. Ibraheem Gbajabiamila, the Institution’s Vice Chancellor, advised the graduating students to consider their degrees as a life jacket which would keep them afloat. Gbajabiamila urged them to make the university proud through their contributions wherever they may find themselves by hard work, innovations, commitment and ethical in their future work and leadership. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State Government at the weekend said it is addressing the agitation of the people of the Central and Western Senatorial Zones to have a university cited in their domain. Governor  Dapo Abiodun made this known at a one day stakeholders forum with the theme,… September 22, 2019 In "Education" Former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, on Saturday, said the solution to the Nigeria’s challenges was for the citizenry to unite and collectively evolve solution to the problems. October 15, 2016 In "News" The Ogun state government has offered automatic employment to 20 residents of the state. The Governor of the state, Dapo Abiodun publicly offered the 20 newly employed civil servants automatic jobs to mark the commencement of the launch of the official job portal. August 15, 2019 In "News"