A second whistleblower has come forward in the impeachment case against United States President Donald Trump, according to lawyers representing the first one. Mark Zaid told ABC News the second person was also an intelligence official and they had spoken to the inspector general. The White House has not commented. President Trump has repeatedly rejected the original complaint. No details have been released about the second whistleblower’s claims, according to BBC report. However, Mr Zaid said the person had first-hand knowledge of allegations associated with the phone call Mr Trump made with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on 25 July. ⤕Impeachment Inquiry: Trump to formally object to probe, predicts Democrats woes ⤕Trump Impeachment Inquiry: Democrats issue demand for Ukraine-call documents The impeachment inquiry stems from the call, which was flagged up by the initial whistleblower in August. On Friday, the New York Times reported that a second person was considering coming forward who had “more direct information” about the events surrounding the call. It is not yet known if this is the person represented by Mr Zaid. Mr Trump’s personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani tweeted that he was not surprised there was another “secret source”, calling the inquiry politically motivated and lashing out at the “swamp media”. Vanguard News Nigeria. The United States Democratic Party has begun a formal impeachment inquiry into President Donald Trump over allegations that he pressured a foreign power to damage a political rival. Top Democrat Nancy Pelosi said the president "must be held accountable." Mr. Trump has denied wrongdoing and called the efforts a "witch… September 25, 2019 In "News" The White House scrambled to "lockdown" records of President Donald Trump's phone call pressing for Ukraine's interference in next year's US election, according to an incendiary whistleblower complaint released Thursday, in the latest episode of an intensifying impeachment drama. The complaint caps a stunning week of revelations that have put… September 27, 2019 In "Foreign" United States Democratic lawmakers have demanded documents from the White House as part of their impeachment inquiry into the nation's president, Donald Trump. The documents relate to a call between Mr Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on 25 July. In the call, Mr Trump pushed Mr Zelensky to investigate… October 5, 2019 In "Foreign"