The FCT Police Command on Friday paraded an alleged fake Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Mr John Tarsoo, for extorting the public. The FCT Commissioner of Police, CP Bala Ciroma, who disclosed in Abuja said Tarsoo was one of the 49 arrested suspects within the last couple of weeks. He said that the suspect was arrested through a tip-off and that investigation had commenced before taking him to court for prosecution. “Following complaints received that a suspected young man has been parading himself as a police officer and duping unsuspecting members of the public, Police detectives from this Command carried out a discreet investigation that led to the arrest of one John Tarsoo. “It is pertinent to state that the suspect who has never served in the Nigeria Police Force has been defrauding unsuspecting members of the public under the pretense that he is an ASP. “The suspect will be arraigned in court upon the conclusion of investigation,” the CP said. However, while fielding questions from newsmen, the suspect who was fully dressed in police uniform insisted that he worked with the Bauchi State Police Command. He urged the FCT Police Command to carry out full investigation before parading him. Vanguard Nigeria News The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Police Command on Monday said it had arrested a 70-year- old fake Presidential Adviser on Defence Matters. October 19, 2015 In "News" The Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) of the Nigerian Police force has arrested and detained an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP, and six other Police officers over allegations of extra-judicial killings in separate incidents that occurred in Abuja and Benin, the Edo State capital. September 20, 2015 In "News" FCT Police arrest fake lunatic with firearm NAN-DS-6 Arrest Abuja, Jan. 25, 2016 (NAN) The FCT Police Command said it had arrested a male suspect who pretended to be a lunatic on Jan. 20 around the Apo bridge. Mr Wilson Inalegwu, the FCT Commissioner of Police, made the disclosure while… January 25, 2016 In "News"