Some Opposition political parties and civil society organisations, under the aegis of All Parties and Civil Associations Platform (APCAP), have congratulated Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje for emerging victorious at the Governorship Election Petitions Tribunal.‎ ‎This was contained in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Malam Abba Anwar and made available to newsmen on Sunday in Kano. According to the statement, the congratulatory letter was signed by ‎Chief Benjamin Dogo and Bello Kwalla for the amalgamation of opposition parties together with some civil society organisations. “What transpired is but a clear victory for democracy as described by our dear President Muhammadu Buhari.‎ “The defeated gubernatorial candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has every constitutional right to appeal the judgement. “Your victory is predicated on clear and objective display of professionalism in the dispensation of justice,” the statement said.‎ ‎The group also said that the judgement alone was a pointer to Ganduje’s all-embracing attitude towards opposition in the state. According to the group, immediately after the judgement the major concern of Ganduje is to reiterate his stand for safer, healthier and peaceful Kano.‎ ‎The statement also quoted the coordinator of the group as commending APC for a display of maturity after the judgement in celebrating the victory. “We are assuring Nigerian politicians that with this development that Kano will reach an advanced stage in democratic experience and experiment. “This is even so because we have realised that there wasn’t any rift caused by the joyful APC supporters,” it added.‎ They also called on others still on the fence to join hands with the opposition parties that co-authored the congratulatory letter in commending the governor over his victory at the tribunal. The group also commended the governor on his resolve to put in place, an all-inclusive administration and promised that they would continue to track his steps purposely to strengthen good governance in the state. Vanguard Nigeria News An African Group of Democrats under the aegis of African Democracy Assessment Network (ADAN) based in Dakar, Senegal, has selected Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano state to be honoured with an award of “Best Governor in 100 Days in office’’. September 8, 2019 In "News" President Muhammadu Buhari has secured 2,931,235 votes at the just concluded presidential primary election held across the 484 wards in the 44 local government areas of Kano State. September 29, 2018 In "News" Kano State, the stronghold of the ruling party at the federal level, All Progressives Congress, APC, and where Governor  Abdullahi Ganduje has  promised  to give President Muhammadu Buhari five million votes in the 2019  general elections,  is enmeshed  in  a  row between the publisher of an online news medium, Daily… November 4, 2018 In "Politics"