The Government of Delta has approved 381 million naira for the 2018/2019 bursary scheme for students in higher institutions. The Commissioner for Information, Mr Charles Aniagwu, made this known while briefing newsmen on the outcome of State Executive Council meeting on Wednesday  in Asaba. Aniagwu, who was in company with the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr. Olisa Ifeajika said that the state government approved that over 17,000 students benefit from the assistance. “Government has approved the sum of 381 million naira for the 2018/2019 bursary scheme for students of Delta State origin in higher institutions in the country. Over 17,000 students will benefit from this scheme from the over 24,000 students that applied. Tribunal upholds Lalong’s election(Opens in a new browser tab) He disclosed that government has also approved the recertification of all co-operative societies in the state to ensure that they meet best practices and they truly reflect the yearnings and aspirations of their members. Aniagwu also  disclosed that EXCO has approved the reorganization of the Ministry of Oil and Gas with the creation of additional six departments to ensure that the Ministry meet up its mandate of monitoring the activities of the oil sector in the state. While expressing government’s concern on environmental cleaning, the commissioner said that government would soon embark on the clearance of illegal structures on our highways to ensure safety of motorists and other deltans on these roads. On the palliative measures on ‘federal roads, he said that the state government would continue to carry out the repairs of the roads as they impact more on the state economy and the lives of deltans. .  Delta State Commissioner for Higher Education, Dr. Hope Eghagha, has said the state governor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, has approved payment of the 2009 Students Special Assistance Scheme to eligible undergraduates of tertiary institutions of the state origin. October 22, 2009 In "News" AHEAD of the 2019 general elections, Mr Charles Aniagwu, Chief Press Secretary to Delta State Governor, has stated that Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has recorded numerous achievements to secure a second term. November 29, 2018 In "News" NATIONAL Association of Delta State Students (NADESSTU) has commended Governor Emmanuel Uduaghan for paying bursary and approving overseas scholarships for students of the state origin since 2007. September 9, 2009 In "News"