Manchester United will try to sign one or two players in the January transfer window to improve their chances of finishing in the top four, but will not spend big on transfer fees and wages, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has said. United are 12th in the Premier League ahead of Sunday’s home game against league leaders Liverpool after a poor start to the season that has been further disrupted by injuries to key players. Solskjaer sanctioned the departures of forwards Romelu Lukaku and Alexis Sanchez in the close season without reinforcing United’s attack and the Norwegian also has goalkeeper David De Gea and midfielder Paul Pogba out injured. “We’re looking at one or two new signings. We’re one or two players light. “If the right ones are available in January then we might do something. If not, these players will give everything (for a top-four finish).” Solskjaer said. “I’m not going to go down the route of bringing players in on big contracts and fees if they’re not the right ones for the whole group and for the future. “The money is there to strengthen in January and in the summer,” Solskjaer said. United started the season with a 4-0 win over Chelsea but have scored five goals in seven league matches since and Solskjaer said an injury to forward Anthony Martial, who has not played since August, was a factor in their struggles. ⤖Mikel jokes about becoming Lampard’s assistant at Chelsea ⤖Can Solskjaer save Manchester United’s season? “There are many reasons, but one of them is injuries to Anthony. Creating chances has been a challenge for us with teams dropping deep. “But we’re practising patterns every single week. When we get the players fit.” Solskjaer said. He continued; “I’m going to make Marcus and Anthony score those scruffy goals, as that’s what I did,” the 46-year-old former United player said. Vanguard News Nigeria. Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer on Wednesday dismissed speculation that Paul Pogba is to leave Old Trafford, saying there had been "no bids" for the midfielder and "agents talk all the time". July 10, 2019 In "News" Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer remains confident that goalkeeper David de Gea will commit his future to the club despite entering the final year of his contract. September 14, 2019 In "News" Manchester United's victory against Tottenham is a statement win for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer but the team's reliance on David de Gea's heroics in goal show the interim boss still has work to do. January 14, 2019 In "News"