Against the backdrop of the federal government’s decision to regulate the use of social media in the country, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Tuesday, warned that any attempt to cage-free speech would be resisted by Nigerians. Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed had yesterday unveiled measures intended by the government to curtail fake news spread particularly on social media. In a swift reaction, however, national publicity secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbindiyan, cautioned government and the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, not to see Nigerians as a people incapable of enforcing their fundamental human rights of freedom of expression as provided in the nation’s constitution. In a telephone conversation with our correspondent, the publicity scribe stated: “The federal government and the APC must realize that every plan of theirs to stop Nigerians from freely expressing themselves on issues of governance will be resisted. “They should realize that the freedom of expression is constitutionally guaranteed and any attempt to deny them the liberty to express themselves in accordance with the provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended) will fail.” And rather than dwelling on what he called frivolities, Mr. Ologbondiyan charged the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to find quick solutions to the killings, kidnappings and all manner of security challenges bedeviling the nation. vanguard Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has assured that the Buhari Administration will not stifle free speech by seeking to regulate the Social Media or abridging the rights of the citizens. November 23, 2015 In "News" The federal government says it is working to inject sanity into the social media space, which the government said has gone totally out of control. The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed disclosed this at a media briefing on Tuesday in Abuja. “Gentlemen, since we inaugurated our reform… October 29, 2019 In "News" Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, says the Federal Government has credible evidence that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, and it’s a presidential candidate in the 2019 elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, are doing everything possible to sabotage the current administration, generally overheat the polity and make Nigeria… May 19, 2019 In "News"