Plaqad, Nigeria’s foremost Influencer Marketing platform connecting individuals and brands to top content creators, social media influencers and publishers, has signed 25 housemates of the just concluded Big Brother (BBNaija) Season 4 on its platform. This development further bolsters the platform’s readiness to meet up with the dynamics of consumer engagement via online and offline platforms and to better serve its growing clientele. The twenty-five housemates include BBNaija Season 4 winner Mercy Eke, 1st runner-up Mike, 2nd runner-up Frodd, and co-finalists Omasola and Seyi. They will join other celebrities and social media influencers who have already been signed up on the Plaqad platform. Other BBnaija Season 4 housemates now members of the Plaqad influencer community include Elozonam, Diane, Ike, Isilomo, Avala, Kim Oprah, Ella, Khaffi, Gedoni, Jeff, Esther, Jackye, Tuoyo, Sir Dee, Venita, Cindy, Enkay, Thelma, Nelson and Joe. “For us at Plaqad, we are all about value and we do this on all fronts for our clients as well as the influencers we work with. Our decision to sign up these 25 superstars is a testament to our commitment to this vision and we are very excited to have them as part of our family. We have already begun talks with them and some of them will be collaborating with Plaqad on a number of brand campaigns in the next few days,” CEO of Plaqad, Gbenga Sogaike, says Since its launch in 2017, Plaqad through its impressive showing in the influencer marketing and media content distribution space has quickly become one of the biggest hubs for content creators, publishers, and social media influencers, with thousands of users currently signed up on its platform. Vanguard In just three months since the announcement of Big Brother Naija Season 4 was made, all that it represents has generated a lot of excitement and frenzy among viewers who are anticipating the next stars that will emerge from this competition. March 10, 2019 In "Entertainment" Nigeria’s leading influencer marketing platform, Plaqad.com, has announced the launch of its Campus Ambassador Program (Plaqad CAP). The program is an exclusive community of young, smart, and influential students in all leading university and polytechnic campuses across Nigeria. September 24, 2019 In "News" Ex-Big Brother Naija 2019 season four housemate, Tacha has deleted all the posts on her Instagram page. Tacha who was disqualified from the Big Brother Nigeria (BBNaija) reality show this year may have decided to wipe out all her posts on Instagram to re-brand. BBNaija Finale: What Tacha said in… October 11, 2019 In "Entertainment"