Big game ahead. No matter what – the only way is standing together as one.  @Arsenal #COYG #LIVARS #M1Ö pic.twitter.com/xufTMWgq2T — Mesut Özil (@MesutOzil1088) October 29, 2019  Mesut Ozil has told Arsenal they must “stand together as one” ahead of Wednesday’s Carabao Cup encounter against Liverpool. The former Germany international player has long caused a polemic among supporters at the Emirates Stadium, with some believing that a player of his talent is invaluable to the team, while others have criticized his work ethic on the field. Current manager Unai Emery has been siding with the latter group in recent weeks, as Ozil has persistently been left out of matchday squads by the Spaniard. Meanwhile, he has not been the only player causing a rift in north London, with club captain Granit Xhaka jeered as he was replaced during a 2-2 draw with Crystal Palace on Sunday. The Switzerland international midfielder, 27, was booed as he trudged off the field, appeared to shout an obscenity towards the crowd, then tore his shirt off and went straight down the tunnel when he was substituted. Emery does not appear to have come down too hard on Xhaka, whose refusal to immediately apologize for his actions only added fuel to the fire. And this understanding approach seems to be one that Ozil would favour ahead of the midweek clash against the Premier League leaders as he posted a rally for unity on Instagram. “Big game ahead. No matter what – the only way is standing together as one,” the 31-year-old told his fans. Source: Goal.com Vanguard News  Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang scored twice as Arsenal returned to winning ways with a 3-1 victory against Burnley on Saturday after Mesut Ozil was restored to the starting line-up as captain. December 22, 2018 In "Sports" Unai Emery is just a handful of games into his reign at Arsenal, but already he is facing up to the problem that Arsene Wenger never satisfactorily resolved. September 1, 2018 In "Sports" Arsenal manager Unai Emery has challenged troubled star Mesut Ozil to prove his worth after a season marred by injuries and illness. February 20, 2019 In "Sports"