“Hong Kong remains part of China and Hong Kong affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that brook no foreign interference”, says China Consul General to Nigeria, Mr. Chu Maoming. Maoming, who also disclosed that for the past 22 years since Hong Kong’s return to China, the Chinese government had stayed committed to the principles of ‘one country, two systems.’ He made this disclosure in a press statement which clearly passed his country’s message to certain countries that Hong Kong remains part of China and Hong Kong affairs are purely China’s internal affairs that brook no foreign interference. According to the statement which also wondered why the US government pointed fingers at a region of another country, claiming it does not have ‘human rights and democracy’ while the said region ranked higher than the US itself in terms of rule of law and freedom, the current situation in Hong Kong has nothing to do with so-called human rights or democracy. The real issue, it stated, is to promptly end violence, restore order and safeguard the rule of law. Statement went further to say that instead of condemning the violent acts of those who threaten the safety of life and property of the Hong Kong people, some western countries led by the US publicly or covertly give various types of support to the violent radicals, and try to interfere in the judicial independence of Hong Kong, even obstruct Hong Kong police from bringing the violent offenders to justice. “Hong Kong people are administering Hong Kong and with a high degree of autonomy. Such autonomy is unique and not practiced by sub national units within many federal countries. For example, Hong Kong enjoys the power of final adjudication and pays no taxes to the Central Government of China. Even in the US, no state is entitled to such a privilege”, it also stated. Going further, it stated that according to the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index 2019, which was issued by a international civil society organization located in Washington, Hong Kong ranks 16th among 126 countries and jurisdictions, while the US ranks 20th and in terms of the Human Freedom Index 2018, the other report which was issued by the Fraser Institute in Canada, Hong Kong ranked 3th and was 14 steps higher than America. “We cannot help but ask, what has given the US such confidence to point fingers at a region of another country, claiming it does not have ‘human rights and democracy’ while the region ranks higher than itself in terms of rule of law and freedom?” “The US House of Representatives passed the so-called Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019 on 16 October. That is a gross interference in China’s internal affairs again and a full revelation of the US anti-China forces’ political calculations, which attempt to contain China’s development by messing up Hong Kong. The radical demonstrations and violent clashes have lasted more than half a year in Hong Kong. The damage to the society has expanded, saddening all the people who love and care about this city. We sincerely hope that the US would review what they have brought to the world under the cover of so-called ‘human rights and democracy’”, statement read. While also noting that the China news networks nowadays are filled with stories and images of atrocities in Iraq, Libya, and Syria, etc and that these countries with thousands of years of history and once with great infrastructures have been reduced to rubbles, Maoming stated that countless homes are destroyed, and many more people are displaced, being deprived of the most basic human rights of safety and basic living. “These are exactly the consequences of the interference to others’ domestic affairs under the disguise of human rights and democracy We also sincerely hope that the US would look at itself in the mirror before treating itself as a judge and pointing fingers at others. Do not forget the strong voices of ‘We Are the 99%’ from the Occupy Wall Street. Do not forget the casualty of nearly 1,000 shot by American police in enforcing the law in 2017 alone. It is common knowledge that America has never shown any mercy in tackling demonstrations at home. But now this country is slinging mud at the Central Government of China and Hong Kong government for their attempt to restore order. What else can it be but typical double standard?”, Maoming questioned. He declared however, that the Central Government of China will firmly support the Hong Kong government and police in taking all necessary measures to bring those perpetrators to justice and uphold social stability of this city. “And we also urge the relevant American politicians to grasp the trend of the times, immediately stop advancing the bills, and refrain from meddling with Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs as a whole”, Maoming advised. Vanguard The Consul General, of the Peoples’ Republic of China in Lagos, Mr. Chu Maoming, has pointed out that the recent situations in China’s Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), are not as expressed and or noted by many. October 21, 2019 In "News" Consul General of China in Lagos, Chu Maoming, Thursday explained the recent situations in China’s Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), saying he needed to do to set the record straight to his Nigerian friends. October 17, 2019 In "News" China on Wednesday expressed “strong indignation and firm opposition” to the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of a bill in support of Hong Kong protesters. October 16, 2019 In "News"