N’Golo Kante was withdrawn from the France team to play Iceland because of injury prior to kick-off in Reykjavik. The Chelsea midfielder had been named in the starting XI and was all set to play in the Euro 2020 qualifying match before reportedly suffering a muscle strain. It meant Tottenham’s Moussa Sissoko came into Didier Deschamps’ line-up for the Group H fixture. Deschamps had earlier surprised some observers by choosing Lucas Digne at left-back when Lucas Hernandez had been tipped to recover from a knee problem to start. Olivier Giroud was the focal point in attack, supported by Antoine Griezmann, with Kylian Mbappe on the injured list along with midfield playmaker Paul Pogba and Hugo Lloris, the goalkeeper and regular captain of Les Bleus. Kante could also miss France’s qualifier against Turkey on Monday, and Chelsea boss Frank Lampard will hope the former Leicester man is fit for the Blues’ next Premier League clash, their home game against Newcastle on Saturday, October 19. The 28-year-old has started just three of Chelsea’s opening eight league games after being troubled by an ankle injury in the early weeks of the season. Kante missed three weeks of Premier League action as well as his side’s Champions League opener against Valencia, while he was also kept out of the France squad for the previous qualifiers in September at Lampard’s request. The loss of Kante could see Lampard turn to Ross Barkley to replace him in the starting XI, as he did earlier this season, though Mateo Kovacic is also an option. Chelsea are currently 10 points behind Liverpool in the Premier League after eight games, but just two behind second placed Manchester City. The Blues have won their last four matches in all competitions heading into next week’s game at Stamford Bridge, which is followed by a trip to Amsterdam, where they face Ajax in the Champions League on October 23. Source: Goal Vanguard News  France coach Didier Deschamps left Chelsea striker Olivier Giroud on the bench for a World Cup opener against Australia on Saturday as teenager Kylian Mbappe leads Les Bleus' front line in Kazan. June 16, 2018 In "2018 World Cup" Uruguay striker Edinson Cavani was ruled out of the World Cup quarter-final against France in Nizhny Novgorod on Friday because of injury. July 6, 2018 In "2018 World Cup" Antonio Conte says the injury problems that threaten to derail Chelsea's season have been caused by his side's increased workload. October 17, 2017 In "News"