Britain on Tuesday revised the tariff regime that would come into force if it leaves the EU without a deal, making 88 per cents of total imports by value eligible for levy free access. Seeking to balance the need to keep consumer prices down without destroying domestic producers, Britain also said under a new “exceptional review process” it could make changes to the regime from day one if needed. “The UK is a free trading nation and British business is in a strong position to compete in an open, free-trading environment,” Trade Policy Minister Conor Burns said. UK’s Members of Parliament plan vote of no-confidence in Boris Johnson(Opens in a new browser tab) With just 23 days to go before the United Kingdom is due to leave the world’s largest trading bloc – and with no divorce deal in sight – Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is stepping up preparation for a potentially chaotic exit. London first published a temporary tariff regime before its original leaving date in March, as part of its preparations to leave a bloc it joined in 1973. The revised plan, which follows feedback from industry, lowers tariffs on trucks, applies tariffs to additional clothing products and adjusts levies on bioethanol to retain support for UK producers of a fuel that is important to critical national infrastructure. The government has left some protections in place for British producers, for instance carmakers and farmers, while many other industries will face cheaper competition from abroad. Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Wednesday unveil his final Brexit offer to the EU and say that, if Brussels does not engage with it, Britain will stop talking and leave on Oct. 31 regardless. October 2, 2019 In "News" Britain and the EU agreed a draft text setting out a close post-Brexit relationship, officials said, though wrangles over fish and the future of Gibraltar must still be settled before leaders meet on Sunday. November 22, 2018 In "News" A no-deal Brexit would cause disruption and might also have an impact on liquidity in financial markets, the European Union commissioner in charge of financial services said on Tuesday in a stark reminder of the risks posed by a hard Brexit. April 2, 2019 In "News"