President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who was declared winner of 2019 Nobel Peace Prize, on Friday in Oslo, Norway. The president in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, in Abuja on Friday, said Ahmed’s recognition as winner of the Nobel Peace Prize “portends a good sign for the peace processes within countries, and across borders on African continent’’. Buhari felicitated with the prime minister, his cabinet and all Ethiopians on the remarkable global recognition of winning the 100th peace prize, which was attributed to a decision to end 20-year conflict between two African countries, Ethiopia and Eritrea. ⤖Ethiopian Prime Minister Ahmed wins 2019 Nobel Peace Prize ⤖WikiLeaks founder Assange remanded in jail after brief UK court hearing The Nigerian leader reiterated his belief that African development is strongly tied to peaceful co-existence and deliberate efforts by governments and people to sustain harmony within and between countries. While urging more concerted and collective partnership on peace in the continent, Buhari prayed that the global recognition would spur more interest on issues of peace in Africa and drive home the immeasurable benefits. Vanguard News Nigeria. The 2019 Nobel Peace Prize has been awarded to Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. He was awarded the prize for his efforts to "achieve peace and international cooperation". Ethiopia reached a peace deal with Eritrea last year, ending a 20-year military stalemate following their 1998-2000 border war. He was named… October 11, 2019 In "Foreign" The Norwegian Nobel Committee decided to award 2019 Nobel Peace prize to Ethiopian Minister, Abiy Ahmed "for his efforts to achieve peace and international cooperation, and in particular for his decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighboring Eritrea". This is contained in a CNN video on twitter. Uganda… October 11, 2019 In "News" During a high-level meeting at Ethiopia’s foreign ministry in July, officials were shocked by social media reports that their prime minister was visiting Eritrea. No one in the room had been informed of Abiy Ahmed’s trip, his second since clinching a peace deal last year that ended two decades of… October 9, 2019 In "Foreign"