Tiger Woods is writing his first memoir, the “definitive story” of the champion golfer’s lifetime in the spotlight. The book is titled “BACK” and will be published by HarperCollins, but no release date was provided. Announced in a press release on Tuesday, the book will trace the 15-time major winner’s development from a child prodigy through his stunning victory at the Masters last April. It also includes commentary about breaking racial barriers, his battles with injuries and drama in his personal life. “I’ve been in the spotlight for a long time, and because of that, there have been books and articles and TV shows about me, most filled with errors, speculative and wrong,” Woods, 43, said in a statement. “This book is my definitive story. It’s in my words and expresses my thoughts. It describes how I feel and what’s happened in my life. “I’ve been working at it steadily, and I’m looking forward to continuing the process and creating a book that people will want to read.” HarperCollins executive editor Shannon Welch will edit Woods’ memoir. “I was delighted to discover how much he has to say, and how ready, how eager, he is to say it,” Welch said. “He’s at a place in his career and his life where he’s thinking deeply about his story, the highs and the lows, and how it all relates and connects. I think the result will be extraordinary.” Source: Reuters Vanguard News An elderly female relation walked up to him after the burial of another member of the extended family and told him in very unkind words what a waste his life was if, with all the handsome body God had endowed him with he saw nothing else to be but a… February 4, 2018 In "News" Tiger Woods said Wednesday he hopes to return to competitive golf next month at a tournament in California, but the 14-time major champion warned his much-anticipated return would depend on his continued recovery. September 7, 2016 In "Sports" Legendary golfer Tiger Woods, said alcohol wasn’t involved in his arrest for drink driving on Monday and that he had an unforeseen reaction to prescribed medications. May 30, 2017 In "Sports"