Ahead of the 2020 governorship election in Edo State, contractors to the state government under the aegis of Edo  Contractors Forum have thrown their weights behind  Governor Godwin Obaseki’s second term bid. A statement in Benin yesterday signed by  Mr. Austine Aimiuwu (Coordinator) and Pastor Friday Emuze (Secretary) respectively for the Forum,  urged those working against his second term bid in the State to have a rethink. sheath their swords and key into the governor’s vision and good works. The duo said that the Forum which has been in existence for over two years, has been working silently with Governor Godwin Obaseki, in accordance with his Wake & See policy of his government operations. They said, ” The Forum has decided to open up in view of the negative public propaganda being mischievously orchestrated by some passives aggrieved party leaders within the APC in the State. ALSO READ: Obaseki performs groundbreaking ceremony of College of Agriculture in Edo ALSO READ: House help docked for stealing employer’s N1m ” The Forum stated that it is not true that Governor Godwin Obaseki has abandoned some group of party leaders in the state, in terms of contract awards and political patronage and benefits. The Forum further stated that besides the major construction works like the ongoing State Secretariat’s reconstruction and other major construction projects being handled by some multinational firms, all other infrastructural development projects across Edo State are being executed by Edo State government indigenous contractors “Their presence and impacts are very visible in all the eighteen local government area in Edo state. The Forum members are currently handling over 230 Primary Schools infrastructural development projects across Edo state, on behalf of Edo- SUBEB. “Edo people have never had it so good in view of the massive and holistic improvement and socioeconomic development of Edo state, and we therefore advice all well-meaning and good people of Edo state, irrespective of their political affiliation to key into the Governor Godwin Obaseki’s good vision for Edo state and rally round to support the Wake & See governor, as Edo people want the governor ever than before to seek his well deserved second term bid, to complete his good work and move the state the next level of socioeconomic development and advancement” Vanguard News  The newly elected President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick has commended Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, for his initiatives in transforming the sports sector in the state. September 24, 2018 In "News" A socio-cultural and political group known as 7LG Forum, with members from the seven local councils in Edo South Senatorial District, has thrown its weight behind the reelection of Governor Godwin Obaseki and his Deputy Comrade Philip Shaibu in the 2020 gubernatorial election in the state. June 1, 2019 In "News" As political intrigues build-up ahead of the 2020 governorship election in Edo State, a group of Edo indigenes in Palermo, Italy, have thrown their weight behind the State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki’s second term bid, in recognition of his development strides. The group under the aegis of Edo Association of… October 21, 2019 In "News"