The convoy of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, governorship candidate, Engr. Musa Wada was on Saturday ambushed at Anyigba in Dekina Local Government Area of Kogi State. Wada was on his way to Kogi East PDP stakeholders’ meeting when the incident happened. In a statement issued by the Deputy Director of Public Communications of Kogi State PDP Campaign Council, Mr. Austin Okai said, the attack led to the death of a young man identified as Yusuf Seidu Uhiene on the spot. It was also reported that two of PDP loyalists, Nasir Sule and Ilemona sustained injuries from gunshots by those suspected to be political thugs. The party said: “Our candidate, Engr Musa Wada, today (Saturday) was in Anyigba to attend the Kogi East PDP stakeholders meeting. He was in between the main road and Harbour Bay, venue of the meeting, When the incident occurred.” The PDP governorship Campaign Council, while condemning the attack, appealed to the Nigeria Police in Kogi State to checkmate activities of armed men, saying that, “the attackers are suspected to be thugs loyal to the ruling All Progressives Congress.” The Council said it has lodged a complaint of the incident at the Divisional Police at Anyigba through the PDP Ward Chairman, adding that perpetrators of the heinous act must be brought to justice. The statement allayed fears that the dreaded activities of the suspected APC thugs in Anyigba and other parts of the local government might create voter apathy if not checked, adding that Abocho, Ajiolo and their surroundings have become a hotbed of thuggery attacks. “The new way of laying ambush by the APC thugs to discourage the PDP from prosecuting its campaign due to commence soon is unacceptable. “We condemned the extermination of a promising young man today, who innocently was going about what he believes in without any provocation,” the party noted. Vanguard Nigeria News Engr Musa Wada, the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, was seen sleeping at a public function. This has raised concerns within the PDP. “How can he and his deputy be seen sleeping at a two-hour event? They need to be mentally fit to think of wrestling power… August 12, 2019 In "News" Anxiety gripped Kogi State political leaders, last night, as early results from the governorship election, held in the state, projected Governor Idris Wada to be running neck and neck with his closest challenger, Prince Abubakar Audu, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, APC. November 22, 2015 In "News" The hype and vibrations over the first governorship election to be conducted since the advent of a new administration will reach a crescendo tomorrow when voters in Kogi State go to the polls to choose a governor. The campaigns by the major political parties practically reached every village and town… November 20, 2015 In "News"