Nigerian indigenous car maker, Innoson Group is to set up automobile service centre in Enugu State, Commissioner for Information, Chidi Aroh has said. Aroh, who disclosed this on Friday in Enugu while briefing newsmen said the establishment of the facility was sequel to state government’s patronage of the company. News Extra: Obaseki sacks all his special assistants, senior special assistants(Opens in a new browser tab) It would be recalled that the state government had recently purchased 100 security patrol vans from the company. The commissioner said that part of the agreement that led to the purchase of the vehicles was that the company would establish such facility in the state. He said that the state government expected the facility to be fully functional within the next six months in line with the agreement. “We extracted a commitment in writing from Innoson Group that as a result of this purchase, they will immediately establish a service centre here. “This service centre will provide backup technical services for the maintenance of the vehicles. “This is in addition to a one year full maintenance guaranty given to the state government,” he said. The commissioner said that the state government’s patronage of the local car manufacturer was due to its full commitment to supporting the local economy. BUA, NPA tango over Port Harcourt port,(Opens in a new browser tab) Aroh said that the state government was committed to ensuring that the investment which was providing jobs for residents of the state was protected. “The state government is committed to supporting the local economy. “If you do not support local industries, a lot of Nigerians will lose their jobs. So we want to make sure that our people are protected working in such places,” Aroh said. (NAN) Vanguard The Innoson Kiara Academy, an affiliate of Innoson Group is to train 200 beneficiaries of the Amnesty programme on automobile and plastic manufacturing. March 29, 2016 In "News" THE management of Innoson Motors Nigeria Ltd, has alleged  an abuse of court process by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, in the prosecution of its case with Guaranty Trust Bank, GTB over business dispute. May 31, 2018 In "News" All is now set for Innoson Motors to establish a world class manufacturing plant in Uyo, the capital of Akwa Ibom State. March 22, 2017 In "News"