Russian President Vladimir Putin touted strengthening military and security ties with Africa on Thursday at a Russian-hosted summit that he said brought together representatives from every African country. Putin said this in a speech at the Russia-Africa Summit in Russia’s southern resort city of Sochi on the Black Sea. Russia has signed military cooperation agreements with the majority of Africa’s countries – more than 30 of 54, Putin said. “The number of those African countries that want to join us continues to grow,” Putin said in the televised speech.
Russia, the world’s second-largest weaponry exporter behind the U.S., is seeking to raise its power broker status in the Middle East and Africa. READ ALSO: Drug Abuse: NYCN urges quick implementation of Marwa report READ ALSO: FG power project for Escravos, environs kick off soon – Delta govt “As a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Russia intends to continue to actively participate in developing … practical measures for peace and stability in Africa, ensuring regional security,” Putin said. Russian state arms exporter Rosoboronexport announced this week that a third of its 55 billion dollar portfolio consisted of contracts with a group of 20 partners in Africa, Russian state media reported. Next month, Russia plans to conduct trilateral naval exercises with South Africa and ally China near Cape Town. The trio have been strengthening their ties in recent years as part of the BRICS group of emerging economies: Brazil, Russia, India, China, and South Africa. Source: NAN Vanaguard News Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed his country’s readiness to strengthen military-technical and humanitarian cooperation and offer assistance to African countries. October 22, 2019 In "News" Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed his country’s readiness to strengthen military-technical and humanitarian cooperation and offer assistance to African countries. October 22, 2019 In "News" The Russian Government has agreed to support the development of Nigeria’s rail infrastructure by constructing 1,400 kilometres track from Lagos to the South-South city of Calabar. According to Malam Garba Shehu, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, in a statement in Abuja, said this development… October 24, 2019 In "News"