Following a recent report by Vanguard about pupils of Cherubim and Saraphim, C&S Primary School, Igbo-Alejo who hitherto studied in dilapidated  classrooms, on broken chairs and desks, the children have since been relocated to a new school building. Recall that Vanguard had exclusively reported the bad state of the school, the oldest and only primary school located in Igbo-Alejo near Itun Agan in riverine area of Amuwo-Odofin. However, the pain and burden of the pupils and teachers of the school became worrisome due to the failure to complete a six- classroom building approved in 2017 by the Lagos State Government within four months. The building space was provided by Igbo-Alejo community and  handed to  S.A.B Tika-Tore & Sons Limited as the contractor under the supervision of the state’s   Universal Basic Education, SUBEB. The building was not completed within the time allotted as it took over two years to complete. Obaseki receives NUT 2019 best performing governor award(Opens in a new browser tab) Vanguard report hastened completion within three months Respite finally came the way of the pupils and teachers of C & S Primary School, Igbo-Alejo as the abandoned new school building was completed within three months following Vanguard’s report. During initial investigation, Vanguard had contacted the Public Relations Officer of SUBEB, Mr Seyi Akitoye who stated that the government was aware of the plights of children in Igbo-Alejo. He, however, promised that the building would be completed soon. We’ll no longer be drenched by rain or scorched by the sun- Pupils Expressing delight at the new development, the children who spoke to Vanguard said they now learn in big ventilated classrooms with new chairs and desks. A Basic Four pupil who gave his name as Michael said: “School now is fun as my classroom is beautiful with four fans and new board, new chairs and desks. And we have a big power generator that gives us light when power goes off.“ Another child stated: “I no longer miss school whenever it rains because our classrooms are very conducive.” The state of the old school building made us move in here without an official launch – Teachers “As you can see, the pupils have moved to the new building courtesy of your (Vanguard) report. However, I won’t want you to report anything now because we are waiting for the proper commissioning. The contractor is not feeling fine. When he recovers, you will be invited,“ said the headmistress, Mrs Adejimi Adeleye. On a recent visit to the school, where the headmistress was not on seat, teachers at the school who expressed delight over the new building said they had to move in due to the dilapidated state of the old school building and because of the rainy season. A teacher who refused to disclose his name said: “I can tell you the difference is clear now. Teaching these children in this new building is great. The pupils are relaxed, neater and more composed. Thanks to you.” Another teacher who craved anonymity added: “ We had to move in here without the official launch because the old building was really in a bad shape.” We’ re aware of the movement – SUBEB When Vanguard contacted the Lagos SUBEB PRO, Mr Akitoye, he confirmed the movement of the pupils to the new building. “ We are aware that the pupils have moved in and that they are comfortable, “he said. We can’t appreciate Vanguard enough – Baale of Igbo-Alejo The Baale of Igbo-Alejo Chief Aderibigbe thanked Vanguard for giving his community a voice. “If you had not come here, if you had not crossed the sea to visit and see the sufferings of our children, we would still be lamenting the poor state of the only primary school in our community. “We are happy you came and gave us a voice. We will be happy if government come often to see the progress of the school. And we still need their intervention in the area of healthcare system,“ he pleaded. Pity, alarm and pain are the emotions that greet you as you behold pupils of Cherubim & Seraphim Nursery and Primary School Igbo-Alejo as they learn  in dilapidated classrooms with broken roofs, broken walls and broken chairs. March 28, 2019 In "Woman's Own" He must have acted on a tip-off- and he acted swifty on the information provided. The information led to an unscheduled visit of Niger state governor Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu to some state owned primary Schools few months ago. December 27, 2013 In "Special Report" LAST year, a 10-year-old pupil of All Saints Anglican Primary School, located at Oke Ijebu area of Akure, the Ondo State capital, was mistakenly shot dead by his colleague as he fiddled with a gun he found hidden in the school compound by suspected hoodlums. It was said that the… March 1, 2012 In "Metro"