A student of Tai Solarin University of Education has been arrested after he allegedly stole and poisoned his friends with sniper. According to the victim, Sani Iyabo, popularly known as Paramount Komedy who shared the shocking story on her instagram page, the suspect poured sniper in her drink and food in a bid to kill her after stealing N57,000. She wrote: “After stealing my money, he went ahead and poured sniper in my drink and food, d little I ate out of d food caused me a lot of harm last week but I thank God for life…we v been so cool to u @efynwamama, I even suspected someone else…. this guy no want make I blow…I had to deceive him here….but what if I let him go and he hurt me in future? am so sad he wanted to kill I and @mariotalker.  ”It was not easy taking the guy to the school authorities kus everyone is just angry, it’s so sad kus this guy has been working with us for a while and I liked him so much, he is with d school authorities, I feel pity for him still but @efynwamama ,u really fucked up…now I don’t know who to trust or not to thanks to everyone that called and texted, this won’t stop me from shooting more skits…thank u God” Vanguard Nigeria News A student of University of Lagos has been reported to have killed herself after being accused of stealing makeup and clothes in her hostel. April 30, 2017 In "News" The Senate on Tuesday this week urged the Federal Government to ban the importation, production or circulation of sniper because it is being used by some Nigerians to commit suicide. Yes, it is true that some people who committed suicide recently used sniper. As if that is not bad enough,… July 13, 2019 In "Marriage and Family" When Mr. Sunday Otasi, a father of three and resident of Yenigwe on the outskirts Yenagoa, went to his rustic hometown, Agbobiri, in Okordia clan, Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, last week, to take with him his three teenage children, namely Success, 14, Miracle, 12, and Godstime, 10,… January 6, 2019 In "Crime Alert"