Samsung Electronics Co Ltd has updated software to fix problems with fingerprint recognition features on its flagship Galaxy S10 and Note 10 smartphones, it said on Wednesday. The mobile giant issued an apology via its customer support app Samsung Members and told its Galaxy phone users to update their biometric authentication to the latest software version. A British user told The Sun newspaper that a bug on her Galaxy S10 allowed it to be unlocked regardless of the biometric data registered in the device. Samsung has said the issue can happen when patterns appearing on certain protectors that come with silicon cases are recognized along with fingerprints. “Samsung Electronics takes the security of products very seriously and will make sure to strengthen security through continuous improvement and updates to enhance biometric authentication functions,” the company said on its Korean app. Once touted as a revolutionary feature by Samsung, its ultrasonic fingerprint sensors were fooled by tech reviewers. Videos on tech community websites show the devices can be unlocked through silicon protectors using a persimmon or a small doll. The South Korean company said it would send notifications for software updates to Galaxy S10 and Note 10 users who have registered their biometric data. The Bank of China has pulled fingerprint payments from certain Samsung devices and Alipay’s fingerprint payment verification function app has been temporarily suspended for some Galaxy devices. Source: Reuters Vanguard Newspaper DEVICE makers, Samsung has said it is democratising the mobilephone market with the introduction of a new line of Galaxy series, the S10 and two others, the Galaxy S10+ and S10E. The devices, according to Samsung are engineered to meet the distinct needs of today’s smartphone market, so consumers can… February 27, 2019 In "Technology" Samsung on Wednesday unveiled its new Galaxy S8 smartphones, incorporating the virtual assistant Bixby, as the market leader seeks to rebound from a chaotic handset recall and a corruption scandal. March 30, 2017 In "News" The failure of Galaxy Note 7 last year may have come with a huge loss to the mobile phone manufacturer, Samsung Electronics. Perhaps, in that disappointment, the device maker has found the opportunity to do bigger  things. December 20, 2017 In "Technology"