The Director-General of the Industrial Training Fund, ITF, Sir Joseph Ari has lamented that despite the abundant tourism potentials in Nigeria, the country has been unable to harness them to boost its revenue base hence, to encourage interest in the sector, the Fund is set to establish a training institute in tourism and hospitality management in Lagos State. Ari who was the Chairman at the opening ceremony of the 2019 Jos Trade Fair noted that tourism industry has become an important income earner for many economies across the globe and in some cases; it has outstripped mineral resources in terms of its contribution to the gross domestic product and Nigeria has no excuse not tapping into the tourism potentials. He warned that for tourism to thrive especially in Plateau State, citizens must be skilled in some of the trades like travel agencies, hospitality management, tour guides, catering and event management, leisure activities coordination and concierge among others which attract tourism. Afe Babalola backs restructuring(Opens in a new browser tab) The DG stressed, “The ITF which is the foremost skills development agency has identified the huge potentials in the tourism sector, which is why we are set to establish a training institute in tourism and hospitality management in Lagos, we are willing to collaborate with the Plateau state government to train citizens of the state to tap into the emerging and richly potential sector.” On the trade fair, he added, “Trade Fairs are an integral activity in a society as they provide a platform for individuals and organisations to not only interact and exhibit their products and services but to gain new insights and experiences about doing business. Attending and exhibiting at a trade fair is a way to transform your business from a small start-up into a profitable enterprise. I urge all participants to utilize this opportunity and contribute to the growth of the Nigerian economy.” Vanguard  Industrial Training Fund (ITF) on Tuesday said that it has almost exceeded expectation by training over 150,000 Nigerians in skills acquisition. August 14, 2018 In "News" Industrial Training Fund,ITF, says despite the large numbers of Nigerians without jobs, survey indicated that foreigners are taking up vacant jobs in the country. November 30, -0001 In "News" ENUGU- INDUSTRAL Training Fund, ITF, says it has expanded the skills acquisition and entrepreneur's training programme to stem spiral unemployment in the country. March 21, 2019 In "News"