There’s one exciting female disc jockey in Lagos right now lighting up high profile events with some electrifying performances. Born Tomi Garber in London some few years ago is the new sensation thrilling Lagos brands and fans with her disc jockey skills. Tomi who is fondly referred to as DJ TGarb by her fans began her musical journey when she was gifted a keyboard by her family. That romance with her keyboard nurtured her passion for music and after securing some enviable credentials in the bag, she moved on to broadcasting. While in the United Kingdom, DJ TGarb took up a radio and TV presenter job and along the line she contemplated adding some other skills to her broadcasting job. Her medical doctor father suggested the idea of DJ’ing and she jumped on it, got herself a set of decks, watched a lot of YouTube videos. She also practised for hours trying to hone her skills and like they say, the rest is history. Over the last years, DJ TGarb has learned the ropes and mastered her craft so well that she now handles A-list events like a veteran. Though still not in Eldorado, the young female DJ has shown so much potential and she is such a joy to watch doing her thing. According to the soft spoken DJ some of the highlight of her career include traveling around the world for work, particularly the fact she is getting paid to have the best of both worlds. Growing up in London coupled with excellent parenting, has shaped her into a likeable personality. She has learned how to endure the phase of small beginnings and her patience is surely paying off in the entertainment industry. VANGUARD Nigerian disc jockey, Florence Otedola, aka DJ Cuppy has shared photos of her newly acquired ferrari Portofino worth N75 million. March 25, 2019 In "Music" “Everything about my life is serious. Of course it’s serious.” This is the response of superstar rapper Ice Prince to a question about his relationship with Ghanaian-French beauty Maima. June 13, 2015 In "News" DJ Switch and Housemate, Khafi Kareem stunned fans at the Saturday party in the ongoing fourth BBNaija season. August 25, 2019 In "Entertainment"