Goalkeeper Pepe Reina pulled off a superb penalty save in stoppage time to make up for an earlier mistake as misfiring AC Milan hung on for a gritty 2-1 win over Genoa on Saturday in a thrilling Serie A game that saw both sides finish with 10 men. With just two wins and four goals in their opening six league games, Milan suffered a further blow before kickoff when goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma was forced to withdraw due to a stomach bug, with Reina deputizing between the posts. Genoa had problems of their own when captain Domenico Criscito was carried off on a stretcher with a hamstring injury after 10 minutes and he was replaced by Davide Biraschi. Both understudies went on to struggle and a Reina howler gifted Genoa the lead when he completely misjudged Lasse Schone’s first-half free-kick, allowing it to fly past him into the net. Genoa had substitute Riccardo Sapponara sent off by the referee just before halftime and Milan’s luck turned after the break as Theo Hernandez scored, exploiting a quick free-kick to equalize from a very tight angle. Five minutes later Genoa’s Biraschi was sent off for handling the ball in the penalty area and Franck Kessie stepped up to stroke home the spot-kick and put his team into the lead. Davide Calabria collected his second yellow for Milan in the 79th minute and Reina then upended Christian Kouame to concede a late penalty but he redeemed himself by steering Schone’s spot-kick away for a corner. Milan substitute Samu Castillejo was sent off from the bench before the game finally ended in a win for the visitors. Earlier, there were home wins for SPAL, who beat Parma 1-0 despite having Gabriel Strefezza sent off, and Verona, who scored a 2-0 victory over bottom side Sampdoria.  Neymar continued on his road to redemption with Paris Saint-Germain fans with another stoppage-time goal, this one sealing an emphatic victory as the French champions romped to a 4-0 win over Angers. Pablo Sarabia opened the scoring for PSG after 13 minutes,with summer signing Mauro Icardi netting his first PSG goal in… October 5, 2019 In "Sports" Goalkeeper Pepe Reina saved an injury-time penalty as AC Milan earned a 2-1 comeback win over fellow strugglers Genoa on Saturday in which both teams finished with 10 men. Reina had made a nightmare start as he deputised for Gianluigi Donnarumma who pulled out sick before kick-off. Spaniard Reina misjudged… October 6, 2019 In "News" Spanish midfielder Fabian Ruiz and a late Davide Biraschi own goal rescued a 2-1 win for title-chasing Napoli in a rain-hit Serie A game at Genoa on Saturday. November 11, 2018 In "Sports"