A Diabetologist (a specialist in treatment of diabetes), Mr Chima Adindu, of the Apex Diabetics Center, Jos, has blamed the rise in Type 2 diabetes among children on poor diet mentality and sedentary lifestyle. Adindu disclosed this to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Monday in Jos. He said that in the past, Type 1 Diabetes was prevalent in children as a result of  the child’s body immune system which usually fought harmful bacteria and viruses’ and mistakenly destroyed the insulin producing cells in the pancreas. According to him, Type 2 diabetes occur mostly in adults; “however the  reverse is the case now, as type 2 diabetes is now on the rise among children due to change in diet and more sedentary lifestyles which trigger overweight and obesity”. The specialist lamented that most children now fed on junk and highly processed foods and were usually inactive, which predisposed them to the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes. Say No to High Blood Sugar… Former Diabetic Patient Explains Natural Herbal Solution to Reverse Diabetes and Lowering Blood Sugar Level in shortest time Possible(Opens in a new browser tab) “Most parents give their children highly processed foods which are usually high in sugar, trans fats and void of fiber, vegetables and fruit,” he said. He said that such overweight children were more likely to have insulin resistance, which was a major risk factor for Type 2 diabetes. He called on parents to revert to the traditional meals which were usually high in fiber and consisted of vegetables and to ensure that their children ate more of fruits and vegetables and less processed meals. The diabetologist further blamed sedentary lifestyle as a factor responsible for the rise in Type 2 diabetes in children. He said most children left home very early to school and spend about 10 hours to 12 hours in school and they hardly go out for any sporting activity. He urged parents and schools to ensure that their children engaged in more outdoor activities such as sports to do away with the sedentary way of life. New Herbal Remedy NAFDAC Approved Helps 52 year old woman Reverse Type 2 Diabetes, Lowers Blood sugar level in few weeks without insulin or prescription drugs(Opens in a new browser tab) Adindu also recommended breast feeding to mothers as current researches had shown that babies who were introduced to infant formulas early in life were also susceptible to developing type 1 diabetes. (NAN). Vanguard Jos—A diabetes specialist with Apex Diabetes Screening Centre, Mr Chima Adinu, has said that women who experience gestational diabetes had increased risk of developing Type 2 diabetes later in life. January 2, 2013 In "Health" The growing number of people living with diabetes mellitus in Nigeria is worrisome and an explosion in the number of diabetic patients may be imminent if urgent measures are not taken to address the trend. July 23, 2019 In "Health" When in 2010, Mrs. Henrietta Olaolu was diagnosed of Type 2 diabetes, it sounded like folk tale to her.   She was having increased frequent urination and losing weight.   Her fasting blood sugar test was reading over 350mg/dl. October 29, 2017 In "Health"