Former England midfielder Paul Gascoigne wept in court on Thursday after being found not guilty of sexually assaulting a female passenger he kissed on a train without her consent. The 52-year-old, a former Newcastle United, Tottenham Hotspur and Lazio player, was also cleared at Teesside Crown Court of an alternative charge of assault by beating and told he was free to go. ‘Gazza’ was arrested at Durham train station in Northern England in August 2018 and later released while police investigated the incident. The court heard he had been drinking beer at the time. He had denied sexual assault, saying he kissed a woman on the York to Newcastle train “to boost her confidence” after hearing a male passenger call her fat and ugly. “I was not drunk, I was not forceful, I was not sexual,” the Guardian newspaper quoted him as telling the jury from the witness box. ⤖Man drags in-laws to court over alleged deceit, breach of trust ⤖Judge blocks law forcing Trump to disclose tax returns Gascoigne, who has spent several spells in rehab battling alcohol and drug addiction, played 57 times for England between 1988 and 1998. In a statement through his lawyer, Gascoigne said the last 12 months had been tough but he was “pleased the jury reached the right verdict.” Vanguard News Nigeria. Former England winger Adam Johnson was found guilty of one count of sexual activity with a child at a court in northern England on Wednesday. March 2, 2016 In "News" US comic Bill Cosby has been charged with sexual assault in Pennsylvania over an incident that took place in 2004, a prosecutor said Wednesday -- the first criminal charges filed against the actor after dozens of women claimed abuse. "Mr Cosby is charged with aggravated indecent assault. This is a… December 30, 2015 In "News" Graeme Lawrence, a former Anglican dean of Newcastle in eastern Australia was sentenced after the judge found him guilty of aggravated sexual assault and aggravated indecent assault. Graeme Lawrence, now 77, is reported to be the second most senior Australian religious figure to be convicted of child sexual abuse, after… October 17, 2019 In "Foreign"