Fast rising actress, movie producer and beauty queen, Yetunde Barnabas who broke into national limelight at the age of 22, when she won the Most Beautiful Girl in Abuja beauty pageant and recently won the Miss Tourism Nigeria competition has been nominated as the Promising Actress of the Year at the fifth edition of the prestigious, Nigerian Achievers’ Awards. The actress recently took on the role of the legendary character, Miss Pepeiye on Nigeria’s longest-running sitcom, Papa Ajasco and Company and she also played a leading role in the sequel of the hugely successful “Erin Folami” movie, which is already enjoying positive reviews from movie viewers across Nigeria. Her stock in Nollywood has risen extensively since she broke into the movie scene, and she has not relented, starring in over a dozen movies and several television series. Regina Daniels new age sparks rants on social media The University of Lagos and Royal Arts Academy graduate recently took part in a new beauty campaign organized by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) to celebrate the beauty of African women tagged Ewatomi. The Kogi State indigene has shown her dexterity and versatility in acting, as she has performed in several Yoruba language films, even though she does not consider herself a Yoruba actor. VANGUARD The sensational actress who rose to fame after her role in the popular TV series, Ripples, has been away from the make-believe craft for some years but recently decided to return to her first love as she stars in a new and exceptional romance drama titled Talking Dolls, an unpredictable… January 24, 2017 In "Entertainment" Yetunde Bakare, without doubts, is one of the actresses to watch out for in the Yoruba movie industry. With movies like Ajobi, Alani Baba Labake, Omo Olodo, Awa Okunrin, Awolu Goes to School, Amisu to name a few, the voluptuous ebony signed her way into the big league and she… February 21, 2015 In "Home Video People" Movie industries all over the world are the haven of delectable women who glamourize our screens, not only with beauty but also razor sharp acting skills. From Hollywood to Bollywood and Nollywood, these extraordinary damsels wield their God-given gifts to play with the minds of people. To some producers, a… February 22, 2013 In "Home Video People"