The Chairman of Council of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Professor Peter Okebukola noted in a recent press conference that two repentant of the insurgent group, Boko Haram have decided to enrol for degree programmes in the institution. At the press conference, Okebukola said the Council of the institution had approved the recommendation of the Senate for the appointment of Prof.Uduma Orji of the Department of Philosophy as the new Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic), said the university was gratified over the development. According to Okebukola, a recent report from some correctional centres across the country indicated that two repentant Boko Haram members had enrolled for degree programmes in different fields of study. “The most recent report from this centres indicated two repentant of the insurgent group, Boko Haram, have decided to enrol for NOUN degree programmes, taking advantage of the free facilities provided up to PhD,” he said. He, however, did not state the centres the repentant insurgents were undertaking their study programmes and their chosen courses. Relating another development in the institution, Okebukola revealed women are currently leading men in enrollment at the National Open University of Nigeria, NOUN, as the quest of Nigerians for higher education keeps growing. This, he said was “commendable as it provides women with an opportunity for gaining world-class education at their place and their pace.” “Across the [NOUN] board is an increase in the participation of women in the university, since female enrolment constituted 53 per cent of the total registration. There is also an increase in the enrolment of inmates in correctional centres. ⤕NOUN VC bags Commonwealth fellowship ⤕NOUN VC bags Commonwealth fellowship He said zonal examination registration summaries in October 2019, showed that in South West, while the number of males that enrolled for NOUN was 18,715, that of female stood at 20,980 representing a total of 39,690 population of students in the region. In the North Central, according to him, while the number of male enrollment was 7,662, that of female was 9,919, making a total of 17,581 in the zone. Vanguard News Nigeria. By Joseph Erunke - Abuja Women are currently leading men in enrollment at the National Open University of Nigeria, NOUN, as the quest of Nigerians for higher education keeps growing. NOUN said reports at its disposal indicated that at the moment, women population at the university stands at 53 per… October 10, 2019 In "Education" Inmates serving various jail sentences for "violent extremism" in Nigeria have now shown great interest in Western Education, Vanguard has learned. April 8, 2019 In "News" It was a refreshing evening for members of the Law Students Association (LAWSA) of the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Lagos Chapter. The President of the Chapter, Mr. Asogbon Oluwayomi Godwin, and other members of his executive were in best of spirit. September 22, 2018 In "News"