All is set for Terra Kulture Arena, in collaboration with Oba_X and Moet Hennessy to light up Lagos with a costume party tagged “A Lagos Halloween”, scheduled to hold today at the Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos. The party, which promises to be epic, will be attended by celebrities and socialites. According to the organisers, the event will feature a star studded line-up of popular artistes, Nollywood actors, DJs, fashion icons among others for a night of uncommon fun . The all-night fun treat is a collaborative effort which aims to annually explore the glitz of Halloween, while giving participants a good time. Adding that the Halloween Night in Lagos is about costumes, hoots, jigs and twists, where participants would dress up like their favourite artistes, famous personalities, angels or animals. Halloween also known as All Hallows’ Eve, or All Saints’ Eve, is a celebration observed in several countries on October 31, the eve of the Western Christian feast of All Hallows’ Day. Although it has been over a decade since Halloween premiered in Nigeria, this time, however, it is coming in a grand and glamourous style to keep Lagosians abuzz for an entire night. Highlight of the event include cash prizes for the five best costumes. Vanguard Mr. Waheed Olagunju, Acting Managing Director of Bank of Industry has explained why his organisation is throwing its full weight behind the Bolanle Austen-Peters -owned newly opened Terra Kulture theatre, called the Arena. The unveiling of the purpose-built 400-seater state-of-the-art theatre held recently with many top dignitaries like Minister of… April 16, 2017 In "Entertainment" The Lagos culture home, Terra Kulture, Lagos welcomed unusual visitors especially art patrons and collectors who has followed development in the art circle to the unique art exhibition organised by eight distinguished Nigerian visual artists tagged Distinction 2. December 10, 2014 In "The Arts" IN its determined bid to rejuvenate the culture of theatre in Nigeria by creating opportunities and platforms for performing artists to exhibit their talents and advance their skills, Beeta Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF) in partnership with Terra Kulture penultimate Sunday at Terra Kulture hosted theatre lovers with the command performance… September 15, 2011 In "The Arts"